<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section15.2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-15.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.1 Important Things to Read First</a><a href="section-15.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.3 The NAG Library Link</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-15.2">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">15.2  The New Axiom Library Compiler</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugWhatsNewAsharp</span><a name="chapter-15-1"/>
</p>



<p>A new compiler is now available for Axiom.
The programming language is referred to as the Aldor, and
improves upon the old Axiom language in many ways.
The <span class="teletype">)compile</span> command has been upgraded to be able to
invoke the new or old compilers.
The language and the compiler are described in the hard-copy
documentation which came with your Axiom system.
</p>


<p>To ease the chore of upgrading your <span class="italic">.spad</span> files (old
compiler) to <span class="italic">.as</span> files (new compiler), the
<span class="teletype">)compile</span> command has been given a <span class="teletype">)translate</span>
option. This invokes a special version of the old compiler which
parses and analyzes your old code and produces augmented code
using the new syntax.
Please be aware that the translation is not necessarily one
hundred percent complete or correct.
You should attempt to compile the output with the Aldor compiler
and make any necessary corrections.
</p>






</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-15.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.1 Important Things to Read First</a><a href="section-15.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.3 The NAG Library Link</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>