<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section15.5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-15.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.4 Interactive Front-end and Language</a><a href="section-15.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.6 HyperTex</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-15.5">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">15.5  Library</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugWhatsNewLibrary</span><a name="chapter-15-34"/>
</p>



<p>The <span class="teletype">FullPartialFractionExpansion</span>
domain has been added. This domain computes factor-free full
partial fraction expansions.
See section
FullPartialFractionExpansion
for examples.
</p>


<p>We have implemented the Bertrand/Cantor algorithm for integrals of
hyperelliptic functions. This brings a major speedup for some
classes of algebraic integrals.
</p>


<p>We have implemented a new (direct) algorithm for integrating trigonometric
functions. This brings a speedup and an improvement in the answer
quality.
</p>


<p>The <span class="slant">SmallFloat</span> domain has been renamed
<span class="teletype">DoubleFloat</span> and <span class="slant">SmallInteger</span> has been renamed
<span class="teletype">SingleInteger</span>. The new abbreviations as
<span class="teletype">DFLOAT</span> and <span class="teletype">SINT</span>, respectively.
We have defined the macro <span class="slant">SF</span>, the old abbreviation for {\sf
SmallFloat}, to expand to <span class="teletype">DoubleFloat</span> and modified
the documentation and input file examples to use the new names
and abbreviations. You should do the same in any private Axiom
files you have.
</p>


<p>There are many new categories, domains and packages related to the
NAG Library Link facility. See the file
</p>


<p>src/algebra/exposed.lsp
</p>


<p>for a list of constructors in the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> naglink</span> Axiom exposure group.
</p>


<p>We have made improvements to the differential equation solvers
and there is a new facility for solving systems of first-order 
linear differential equations.
In particular, an important fix was made to the solver for
inhomogeneous linear ordinary differential equations that
corrected the calculation of particular solutions.
We also made improvements to the polynomial
and transcendental equation solvers including the
ability to solve some classes of systems of transcendental
equations.
</p>


<p>The efficiency of power series have been improved and left and right
expansions of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>tan</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> at  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>=</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> a pole of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
can now be computed.
A number of power series bugs were fixed and the <span class="teletype">GeneralUnivariatePowerSeries</span>
domain was added.
The power series variable can appear in the coefficients and when this
happens, you cannot differentiate or integrate the series.  Differentiation
and integration with respect to other variables is supported.
</p>


<p>A domain was added for representing asymptotic expansions of a
function at an exponential singularity.
</p>


<p>For limits, the main new feature is the exponential expansion domain used
to treat certain exponential singularities.  Previously, such singularities
were treated in an <span class="italic">ad hoc</span> way and only a few cases were covered.  Now
Axiom can do things like
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
limit(&nbsp;(x+1)**(x+1)/x**x&nbsp;-&nbsp;x**x/(x-1)**(x-1),&nbsp;x&nbsp;=&nbsp;%plusInfinity)<br />
</div>



<p>in a systematic way.  It only does one level of nesting, though.  In other
words, we can handle  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>exp</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>some</mi><mi>function</mi><mi>with</mi><mi>a</mi><mi>pole</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>, but not
  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>exp</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>exp</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>some</mi><mi>function</mi><mi>with</mi><mi>a</mi><mi>pole</mi><mo>)</mo><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>.
</p>


<p>The computation of integral bases has been improved through careful
use of Hermite row reduction. A P-adic algorithm
for function fields of algebraic curves in finite characteristic has also
been developed.
</p>


<p>Miscellaneous:
There is improved conversion of definite and indefinite integrals to
<span class="teletype">InputForm</span>;
binomial coefficients are displayed in a new way;
some new simplifications of radicals have been implemented;
the operation <span style="font-weight: bold;"> complexForm</span> for converting to rectangular coordinates
has been added;
symmetric product operations have been added to <span class="teletype">LinearOrdinaryDifferentialOperator</span>.
</p>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-15.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.4 Interactive Front-end and Language</a><a href="section-15.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.6 HyperTex</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>