<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.0 Axiom System Commands</a><a href="section-16.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.2 )abbreviation</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.1  Introduction</h2>


<a name="ugSysCmdOverview" class="label"/>


<p>System commands are used to perform Axiom environment
management.
Among the commands are those that display what has been defined or
computed, set up multiple logical Axiom environments
(frames), clear definitions, read files of expressions and
commands, show what functions are available, and terminate
Axiom.
</p>


<p>Some commands are restricted: the commands
<span class="index">set userlevel interpreter</span><a name="chapter-16-0"/>
<span class="index">set userlevel compiler</span><a name="chapter-16-1"/>
<span class="index">set userlevel development</span><a name="chapter-16-2"/>
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;userlevel&nbsp;interpreter<br />
)set&nbsp;userlevel&nbsp;compiler<br />
)set&nbsp;userlevel&nbsp;development<br />
</div>


<p>set the user-access level to the three possible choices.
All commands are available at <span class="teletype">development</span> level and the fewest
are available at <span class="teletype">interpreter</span> level.
The default user-level is <span class="teletype">interpreter</span>.
<span class="index">user-level</span><a name="chapter-16-3"/>
In addition to the <span class="teletype">)set</span> command (discussed in 
<a href="ugSysCmdset" class="ref" >ugSysCmdset</a> )
you can use the HyperDoc settings facility to change the <span class="italic">user-level.</span>
</p>



<p>Each command listing begins with one or more syntax pattern descriptions
plus examples of related commands.
The syntax descriptions are intended to be easy to read and do not
necessarily represent the most compact way of specifying all
possible arguments and options; the descriptions may occasionally
be redundant.
</p>


<p>All system commands begin with a right parenthesis which should be in
the first available column of the input line (that is, immediately
after the input prompt, if any).
System commands may be issued directly to Axiom or be
included in <span style="font-weight: bold;"> .input</span> files.
<span class="index">file:input</span><a name="chapter-16-4"/>
</p>


<p>A system command <span class="italic">argument</span> is a word that directly
follows the command name and is not followed or preceded by a
right parenthesis.
A system command <span class="italic">option</span> follows the system command and
is directly preceded by a right parenthesis.
Options may have arguments: they directly follow the option.
This example may make it easier to remember what is an option and
what is an argument:
</p>




<div class="center" style="text-align: center;">


<p><span class="teletype">)syscmd <span class="italic">arg1 arg2</span> )opt1 <span class="italic">opt1arg1 opt1arg2</span> )opt2 <span class="italic">opt2arg1</span> ...</span>
</p>



</div>



<p>In the system command descriptions, optional arguments and options are
enclosed in brackets (``['' and ``]'').
If an argument or option name is in italics, it is
meant to be a variable and must have some actual value substituted
for it when the system command call is made.
For example, the syntax pattern description
</p>



<p><span class="teletype">)read</span> <span class="italic">fileName</span> <span class="teletype">[)quietly]</span>
</p>



<p>would imply that you must provide an actual file name for
<span class="italic">fileName</span> but need not use the <span class="teletype">)quietly</span> option.
Thus
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)read&nbsp;matrix.input<br />
</div>


<p>is a valid instance of the above pattern.
</p>


<p>System command names and options may be abbreviated and may be in
upper or lower case.
The case of actual arguments may be significant, depending on the
particular situation (such as in file names).
System command names and options may be abbreviated to the minimum
number of starting letters so that the name or option is unique.
Thus
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)s&nbsp;Integer<br />
</div>


<p>is not a valid abbreviation for the <span class="teletype">)set</span> command,
because both <span class="teletype">)set</span> and <span class="teletype">)show</span>
begin with the letter ``s''.
Typically, two or three letters are sufficient for disambiguating names.
In our descriptions of the commands, we have used no abbreviations for
either command names or options.
</p>


<p>In some syntax descriptions we use a vertical line ``|''
to indicate that you must specify one of the listed choices.
For example, in
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;output&nbsp;fortran&nbsp;on&nbsp;|&nbsp;off<br />
</div>


<p>only <span class="teletype">on</span> and <span class="teletype">off</span> are acceptable words for following
<span class="teletype">boot</span>.
We also sometimes use ``...'' to indicate that additional arguments
or options of the listed form are allowed.
Finally, in the syntax descriptions we may also list the syntax of
related commands.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.0 Axiom System Commands</a><a href="section-16.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.2 )abbreviation</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>