<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section12.10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-12.9.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.9 Attributes</a><a href="section-12.11.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.11 Conditionals</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-12.10">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">12.10  Parameters</h2>


<a name="ugCategoriesParameters" class="label"/>


<p>Like domain constructors, category constructors can also have
parameters.
For example, category <span class="teletype">MatrixCategory</span> is a parameterized
category for defining matrices over a ring  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math> so that the
matrix domains can have
different representations and indexing schemes.
Its definition has the form:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
MatrixCategory(R,Row,Col):&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TwoDimensionalArrayCategory(R,Row,Col)&nbsp;with&nbsp;...<br />
</div>



<p>The category extends <span class="teletype">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</span> with
the same arguments.
You cannot find <span class="teletype">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</span> in the
algebraic hierarchy listing.
Rather, it is a member of the data structure hierarchy,
given inside the back cover of this book.
In particular, <span class="teletype">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</span> is an extension of
<span class="teletype">HomogeneousAggregate</span> since its elements are all one type.
</p>


<p>The domain <span class="teletype">Matrix(R)</span>, the class of matrices with coefficients
from domain  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math>, asserts that it is a member of category
<span class="teletype">MatrixCategory(R, Vector(R), Vector(R))</span>.
The parameters of a category must also have types.
The first parameter to <span class="teletype">MatrixCategory</span>
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math> is required to be a ring.
The second and third are required to be domains of category
<span class="teletype">FiniteLinearAggregate(R)</span>.<span class="footnote">
This is another extension of
<span class="teletype">HomogeneousAggregate</span> that you can see in
the data structure hierarchy.</span>
In practice, examples of categories having parameters other than
domains are rare.
</p>


<p>Adding the declarations for parameters to the definition for
<span class="teletype">MatrixCategory</span>, we have:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
R:&nbsp;Ring<br />
(Row,&nbsp;Col):&nbsp;FiniteLinearAggregate(R)<br />
<br />
MatrixCategory(R,&nbsp;Row,&nbsp;Col):&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;TwoDimensionalArrayCategory(R,&nbsp;Row,&nbsp;Col)&nbsp;with&nbsp;...<br />
</div>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-12.9.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.9 Attributes</a><a href="section-12.11.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.11 Conditionals</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>