<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.7 )compile</a><a href="section-16.9.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.9 )edit</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.8">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.8  )display</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugSysCmddisplay</span><a name="chapter-16-49"/>
</p>


<p><span class="index">display</span><a name="chapter-16-50"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> interpreter
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
 <span class="teletype">)display all</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display properties</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display properties all</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display properties</span> <span class="italic">[obj1 [obj2 ...]]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display value all</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display value</span> <span class="italic">[obj1 [obj2 ...]]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display mode all</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display mode</span> <span class="italic">[obj1 [obj2 ...]]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display names</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)display operations</span> <span class="italic">opName</span>
</div>
</div>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>This command is  used to display the contents of  the workspace and
signatures of functions  with a  given  name.<span class="footnote">A
<span class="italic">signature</span> gives the argument and return types of a
function.</span>
</p>


<p>The command
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)display&nbsp;names<br />
</div>


<p>lists the names of all user-defined  objects in the workspace.  This is useful
if you do  not wish to see everything  about the objects and need  only be
reminded of their names.
</p>


<p>The commands
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)display&nbsp;all<br />
)display&nbsp;properties<br />
)display&nbsp;properties&nbsp;all<br />
</div>


<p>all do  the same thing: show  the values and  types and declared modes  of all
variables in the  workspace.  If you have defined  functions, their signatures
and definitions will also be displayed.
</p>


<p>To show all information about a  particular variable or user functions,
for example, something named <span class="teletype">d</span>, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)display&nbsp;properties&nbsp;d<br />
</div>


<p>To just show the value (and the type) of <span class="teletype">d</span>, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)display&nbsp;value&nbsp;d<br />
</div>


<p>To just show the declared mode of <span class="teletype">d</span>, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)display&nbsp;mode&nbsp;d<br />
</div>



<p>All modemaps for a given operation  may be
displayed by using <span class="teletype">)display operations</span>.
A <span class="italic">modemap</span> is a collection of information about  a particular
reference
to an  operation.  This  includes the  types of the  arguments and  the return
value, the  location of the  implementation and  any conditions on  the types.
The modemap may contain patterns.  The following displays the modemaps for the
operation <span class="spadfunFrom" >complex</span><span class="index">complex</span><a name="chapter-16-51"/><span class="index">ComplexCategory</span><a name="chapter-16-52"/>:
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)d&nbsp;op&nbsp;complex<br />
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)clear</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdclear</span><a name="chapter-16-53"/>,
<span class="teletype">)history</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdhistory</span><a name="chapter-16-54"/>,
<span class="teletype">)set</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdset</span><a name="chapter-16-55"/>,
<span class="teletype">)show</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdshow</span><a name="chapter-16-56"/>, and
<span class="teletype">)what</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdwhat</span><a name="chapter-16-57"/>.
</p>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.7 )compile</a><a href="section-16.9.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.9 )edit</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>