<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section6.7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-6.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 6.6 Declared vs. Undeclared Functions</a><a href="section-6.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 6.8 Delayed Assignments vs. Functions with No Arguments</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-6.7">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">6.7  Functions vs. Operations</h2>


<a name="ugUserDecOpers" class="label"/>


<p>A function is an object that you can create, manipulate, pass to, and
return from functions (for some interesting examples of library
functions that manipulate functions, see <a href="MappingPackage1XmpPage" class="ref" >MappingPackage1XmpPage</a>
).  Yet, we often seem to use
the term <span class="italic">operation</span> and <span class="italic">function</span> interchangeably in Axiom.  What
is the distinction?
</p>


<p>First consider values and types associated with some variable <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math> in
your workspace.  You can make the declaration <span class="teletype">n : Integer</span>, then
assign <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math> an integer value.  You then speak of the integer <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math>.
However, note that the integer is not the name <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math> itself, but the
value that you assign to <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math>.
</p>


<p>Similarly, you can declare a variable <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math> in your workspace to have
type <span class="slant"> Integer <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2192;</mo></mstyle></math> Integer</span>, then assign <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math>, through a
definition or an assignment of an anonymous function.  You then speak
of the function <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math>.  However, the function is not <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math>, but the value
that you assign to <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math>.
</p>


<p>A function is a value, in fact, some machine code for doing something.
Doing what?  Well, performing some <span class="italic">operation</span>.  Formally, an
operation consists of the constituent parts of <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math> in your workspace,
excluding the value; thus an operation has a name and a type.  An
operation is what domains and packages export.  Thus <span class="teletype">Ring</span>
exports one operation ``<span class="teletype">+</span>''.  Every ring also exports this
operation.  Also, the author of every ring in the system is obliged
under contract (see <a href="section-11.3.xhtml#ugPackagesAbstract" class="ref" >ugPackagesAbstract</a> ) to provide an implementation for
this operation.
</p>


<p>This chapter is all about functions---how you create them
interactively and how you apply them to meet your needs.  In Chapter
<a href="section-11.0.xhtml#ugPackages" class="ref" >ugPackages</a>  you will learn how to
create them for the Axiom library.  Then in Chapter <a href="section-12.0.xhtml#ugCategories" class="ref" >ugCategories</a>
, you will learn about categories and
exported operations.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-6.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 6.6 Declared vs. Undeclared Functions</a><a href="section-6.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 6.8 Delayed Assignments vs. Functions with No Arguments</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>