<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section12.6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-12.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.5 Membership</a><a href="section-12.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.7 Axioms</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-12.6">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">12.6  Defaults</h2>


<a name="ugCategoriesDefaults" class="label"/>


<p>We actually omitted the last <span class="index">category:defaults</span><a name="chapter-12-15"/> part of the
definition of <span class="index">default definitions</span><a name="chapter-12-16"/> <span class="teletype">SemiGroup</span> in
<a href="section-12.4.xhtml#ugCategoriesHier" class="ref" >ugCategoriesHier</a> .  Here now
is its complete Axiom definition.
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
SemiGroup():&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==&nbsp;SetCategory&nbsp;with<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"*":&nbsp;($,&nbsp;$)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;$<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"**":&nbsp;($,&nbsp;PositiveInteger)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;$<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;add<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;import&nbsp;RepeatedSquaring($)<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;x:&nbsp;$&nbsp;**&nbsp;n:&nbsp;PositiveInteger&nbsp;==&nbsp;expt(x,n)<br />
</div>



<p>The  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>add</mi></mstyle></math> part at the end is used to give ``default definitions'' for
<span class="index">add</span><a name="chapter-12-17"/>
exported operations.
Once you have a multiplication operation  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>*</mo></mstyle></math>, you can
define exponentiation
for positive integer exponents
using repeated multiplication:
</p>


<p> <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle></mstyle></math>
</p>


<p>This definition for  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>*</mo><mo>*</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> is called a <span class="italic">default</span> definition.
In general, a category can give default definitions for any
operation it exports.
Since <span class="teletype">SemiGroup</span> and all its category descendants in the hierarchy
export  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>*</mo><mo>*</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>, any descendant category may redefine  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>*</mo><mo>*</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> as well.
</p>


<p>A domain of category <span class="teletype">SemiGroup</span>
(such as <span class="teletype">Integer</span>) may or may not choose to
define its own  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>*</mo><mo>*</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> operation.
If it does not, a default definition that is closest (in a ``tree-distance''
sense of the hierarchy) to the domain is chosen.
</p>


<p>The part of the category definition following an  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>add</mi></mstyle></math> operation
is a <span class="italic">capsule</span>, as discussed in
the previous chapter.
The line
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
import&nbsp;RepeatedSquaring($)<br />
</div>


<p>references the package
<span class="teletype">RepeatedSquaring($)</span>, that is, the package
<span class="teletype">RepeatedSquaring</span> that takes ``this domain'' as its
parameter.
For example, if the semigroup <span class="teletype">Polynomial (Integer)</span>
does not define its own exponentiation operation, the
definition used may come from the package
<span class="teletype">RepeatedSquaring (Polynomial (Integer))</span>.
The next line gives the definition in terms of <span style="font-weight: bold;"> expt</span> from that
package.
</p>


<p>The default definitions are collected to form a ``default
package'' for the category.
The name of the package is the same as  the category but with an
ampersand (<span class="teletype">&amp;</span>) added at the end.
A default package always takes an additional argument relative to the
category.
Here is the definition of the default package <span class="teletype">SemiGroup&amp;</span> as
automatically generated by Axiom from the above definition of
<span class="teletype">SemiGroup</span>.
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
SemiGroup_&amp;($):&nbsp;Exports&nbsp;==&nbsp;Implementation&nbsp;where<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;$:&nbsp;SemiGroup<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;Exports&nbsp;==&nbsp;with<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"**":&nbsp;($,&nbsp;PositiveInteger)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;$<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;Implementation&nbsp;==&nbsp;add<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;import&nbsp;RepeatedSquaring($)<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;x:$&nbsp;**&nbsp;n:PositiveInteger&nbsp;==&nbsp;expt(x,n)<br />
</div>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-12.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.5 Membership</a><a href="section-12.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.7 Axioms</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>