<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section17.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.28.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.28  )what</a><a href="section-18.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 18.1  Axiom Domains</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-17.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">17.1  Axiom Categories</h2>
<a name="ugAppCategories" class="label"/>

<p>This is a listing of all categories in the Axiom library at the
time this book was produced.
Use the Browse facility (described in Chapter 
<a href="section-14.0.xhtml#ugBrowse" class="ref" >ugBrowse</a> )
to get more information about these constructors.
</p>


<p>This sample entry will help you read the following table:
</p>


<p>CategoryName{CategoryAbbreviation}:{ <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>Category</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>
... <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>Category</mi><mi>N</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>}<span class="italic">with </span>
{ <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>op</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>... <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>op</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>}
</p>


<p>where
</p>


<p><table class="begintabular">
<tr><td>CategoryName </td><td> is the full category name, e.g., <span class="italic">CommutativeRing</span>. </td></tr>
<tr><td>CategoryAbbreviation </td><td> is the category abbreviation, e.g., <span class="italic">COMRING</span>. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>Category</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math> </td><td> is a category to which the category belongs. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>op</mi><mi>j</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math> </td><td> is an operation exported by the category. </td></tr>
</table>
</p>



<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ABELGRP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CancellationAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">-</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">AMR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AbelianMonoidRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra BiModule CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero CommutativeRing
   IntegralDomain Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">/</span> coefficient degree leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial map monomial monomial? reductum</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ABELMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianSemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> Zero zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ABELSG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AbelianSemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">AGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Aggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> copy empty empty? eq? less? more? size?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ACF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AlgebraicallyClosedField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Field RadicalCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">rootOf rootsOf zeroOf zerosOf</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ACFS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AlgebraicallyClosedFunctionSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AlgebraicallyClosedField FunctionSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">rootOf rootsOf zeroOf zerosOf</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ALGEBRA</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Algebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Module Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">AHYP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ArcHyperbolicFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">acosh acoth acsch asech asinh atanh</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ATRIG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ArcTrigonometricFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">acos acot acsc asec asin atan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ALAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AssociationListAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ListAggregate TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">assoc</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ATTREG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AttributeRegistry</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BGAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BagAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">HomogeneousAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">bag extract! insert! inspect</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BMODULE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BiModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LeftModule RightModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BRAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BinaryRecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">elt left right setelt setleft! setright!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BTCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BinaryTreeCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BinaryRecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">node</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BTAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BitAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">\^{}</span> and nand nor not or xor</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CACHSET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CachableSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">position setPosition</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CABMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CancellationAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">-</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CHARNZ</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CharacteristicNonZero</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">charthRoot</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CHARZ</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CharacteristicZero</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">KOERCE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CoercibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CLAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Collection</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo HomogeneousAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">construct find reduce remove removeDuplicates select</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CFCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CombinatorialFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">binomial factorial permutation</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COMBOPC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CombinatorialOpsCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CombinatorialFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">factorials product summation</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COMRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CommutativeRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BiModule Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COMPCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ComplexCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero CommutativeRing ConvertibleTo
   DifferentialExtension EuclideanDomain Field FullyEvalableOver FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver FullyRetractableTo
   IntegralDomain MonogenicAlgebra OrderedSet PolynomialFactorizationExplicit RadicalCategory
   TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">abs argument complex conjugate exquo imag imaginary norm polarCoordinates rational
   rational? rationalIfCan real</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">KONVERT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ConvertibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">convert</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DQAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DequeueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QueueAggregate StackAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">bottom! dequeue extractBottom! extractTop! height
   insertBottom! insertTop! reverse! top!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIOPS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DictionaryOperations</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BagAggregate Collection</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">dictionary remove! select!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Dictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DictionaryOperations</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIFEXT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DifferentialExtension</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialRing PartialDifferentialRing Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">D differentiate</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DPOLCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DifferentialPolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialExtension Evalable InnerEvalable PolynomialCategory
   RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">degree differentialVariables initial isobaric? leader makeVariable order separant weight weights</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIFRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DifferentialRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">D differentiate</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DVARCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DifferentialVariableCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">D coerce differentiate makeVariable order
   variable weight</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIRPCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianSemiGroup Algebra BiModule CancellationAbelianMonoid CoercibleTo
   CommutativeRing DifferentialExtension Finite FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver FullyRetractableTo IndexedAggregate
   OrderedAbelianMonoidSup OrderedRing VectorSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> directProduct dot unitVector</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIVRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DivisionRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra EntireRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> inv</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DLAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DoublyLinkedAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">concat! head last next previous setnext! setprevious! tail</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ELEMFUN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ElementaryFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> exp log</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ELTAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">EltableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Eltable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">elt qelt qsetelt! setelt</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ELTAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Eltable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">elt</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ENTIRER</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">EntireRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BiModule Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EUCDOM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">EuclideanDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PrincipalIdealDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">divide euclideanSize extendedEuclidean multiEuclidean quo rem
   sizeLess?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EVALAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Evalable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">eval</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ES</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ExpressionSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Evalable InnerEvalable OrderedSet RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">belong? box definingPolynomial
   distribute elt eval freeOf? height is? kernel kernels mainKernel map minPoly operator operators paren subst tower</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ELAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ExtensibleLinearAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LinearAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">concat! delete! insert! merge! remove! removeDuplicates!
   select!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">XF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicZero Field FieldOfPrimeCharacteristic RetractableTo VectorSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">Frobenius
   algebraic? degree extensionDegree inGroundField? transcendenceDegree transcendent?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FPC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FieldOfPrimeCharacteristic</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicNonZero Field</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">discreteLog order primeFrobenius</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FIELD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Field</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DivisionRing EuclideanDomain UniqueFactorizationDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">/</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FILECAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FileCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">close! iomode name open read! reopen! write!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FNCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FileNameCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce directory exists? extension filename name new readable? writable?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FAMR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteAbelianMonoidRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianMonoidRing FullyRetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coefficients content exquo ground ground?
   mapExponents minimumDegree numberOfMonomials primitivePart</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FAXF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ExtensionField FiniteFieldCategory RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">basis coordinates
   createNormalElement definingPolynomial degree extensionDegree generator minimalPolynomial norm normal? normalElement
   represents trace</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFIELDC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FieldOfPrimeCharacteristic Finite StepThrough</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">charthRoot conditionP
   createPrimitiveElement discreteLog factorsOfCyclicGroupSize order primitive? primitiveElement representationType
   tableForDiscreteLogarithm</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FLAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteLinearAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LinearAggregate OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">copyInto! merge position reverse reverse! sort sort!
   sorted?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FINRALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteRankAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">characteristicPolynomial
   coordinates discriminant minimalPolynomial norm rank regularRepresentation represents trace traceMatrix</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FINAALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteRankNonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">NonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">JacobiIdentity? JordanAlgebra? alternative?
   antiAssociative? antiCommutative? associative? associatorDependence commutative? conditionsForIdempotents coordinates
   flexible? jordanAdmissible? leftAlternative? leftCharacteristicPolynomial leftDiscriminant leftMinimalPolynomial
   leftNorm leftRecip leftRegularRepresentation leftTrace leftTraceMatrix leftUnit leftUnits lieAdmissible? lieAlgebra?
   noncommutativeJordanAlgebra? powerAssociative? rank recip represents rightAlternative? rightCharacteristicPolynomial
   rightDiscriminant rightMinimalPolynomial rightNorm rightRecip rightRegularRepresentation rightTrace rightTraceMatrix
   rightUnit rightUnits someBasis structuralConstants unit</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FSAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteSetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Dictionary Finite SetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">cardinality complement max min universe</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FINITE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Finite</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">index lookup random size</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FPS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FloatingPointSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RealNumberSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">base bits decreasePrecision digits exponent float
   increasePrecision mantissa max order precision</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FRAMALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FramedAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteRankAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">basis convert coordinates discriminant regularRepresentation
   represents traceMatrix</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FRNAALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FramedNonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteRankNonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">apply basis conditionsForIdempotents
   convert coordinates elt leftDiscriminant leftRankPolynomial leftRegularRepresentation leftTraceMatrix represents
   rightDiscriminant rightRankPolynomial rightRegularRepresentation rightTraceMatrix structuralConstants</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FAMONC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeAbelianMonoidCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CancellationAbelianMonoid RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> coefficient
   highCommonTerms mapCoef mapGen nthCoef nthFactor size terms</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FEVALAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FullyEvalableOver</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Eltable Evalable InnerEvalable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">map</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FLINEXP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LinearlyExplicitRingOver</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FPATMAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FullyPatternMatchable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Object PatternMatchable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FRETRCT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FullyRetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FunctionFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MonogenicAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">D absolutelyIrreducible? branchPoint? branchPointAtInfinity?
   complementaryBasis differentiate elt genus integral? integralAtInfinity? integralBasis integralBasisAtInfinity
   integralCoordinates integralDerivationMatrix integralMatrix integralMatrixAtInfinity integralRepresents
   inverseIntegralMatrix inverseIntegralMatrixAtInfinity nonSingularModel normalizeAtInfinity numberOfComponents
   primitivePart ramified? ramifiedAtInfinity? rationalPoint? rationalPoints reduceBasisAtInfinity represents singular?
   singularAtInfinity? yCoordinates</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FunctionSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup AbelianMonoid Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo
   ExpressionSpace Field FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver FullyPatternMatchable FullyRetractableTo Group Monoid
   PartialDifferentialRing Patternable RetractableTo Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> applyQuote coerce convert denom denominator
   eval ground ground? isExpt isMult isPlus isPower isTimes numer numerator univariate variables</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GCDDOM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GcdDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IntegralDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">gcd lcm</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GRALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GradedAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">GradedModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">One product</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GRMOD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GradedModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RetractableTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> Zero degree</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GROUP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Group</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Monoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> commutator conjugate inv</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">HOAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">HomogeneousAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Aggregate SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">any? count every? map map! member? members parts</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">HYPCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">HyperbolicFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">cosh coth csch sech sinh tanh</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IXAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">EltableAggregate HomogeneousAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">entries entry? fill! first index? indices
   maxIndex minIndex swap!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDPC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedDirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map monomial reductum</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IEVALAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerEvalable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">eval</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">INS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IntegerNumberSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicZero CombinatorialFunctionCategory ConvertibleTo DifferentialRing
   EuclideanDomain LinearlyExplicitRingOver OrderedRing PatternMatchable RealConstant RetractableTo StepThrough
   UniqueFactorizationDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">addmod base bit? copy dec even? hash inc invmod length mask mulmod odd? positiveRemainder
   powmod random rational rational? rationalIfCan shift submod symmetricRemainder</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">INTDOM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IntegralDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CommutativeRing EntireRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">associates? exquo unit? unitCanonical unitNormal</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">KDAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">KeyedDictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Dictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">key? keys remove! search</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LZSTAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LazyStreamAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">StreamAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">complete explicitEntries? explicitlyEmpty? extend frst lazy?
   lazyEvaluate numberOfComputedEntries remove rst select</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LeftAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LeftModule Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LMODULE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LeftModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LNAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LinearAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Collection IndexedAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">concat delete elt insert map new setelt</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LINEXP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LinearlyExplicitRingOver</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">reducedSystem</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LFCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LiouvillianFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PrimitiveFunctionCategory TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">Ci Ei Si dilog
   erf li</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LSAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ListAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ExtensibleLinearAggregate FiniteLinearAggregate StreamAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">list</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MATCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> antisymmetric?
   coerce determinant diagonal? diagonalMatrix elt exquo horizConcat inverse listOfLists matrix minordet nullSpace nullity
   rank rowEchelon scalarMatrix setelt setsubMatrix! square? squareTop subMatrix swapColumns! swapRows! symmetric?
   transpose vertConcat zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MODULE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Module</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BiModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MONADWU</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MonadWithUnit</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Monad</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> One leftPower leftRecip one? recip rightPower rightRecip</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MONAD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Monad</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> leftPower rightPower</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MONOGEN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MonogenicAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CommutativeRing ConvertibleTo DifferentialExtension Field Finite
   FiniteFieldCategory FramedAlgebra FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver FullyRetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">convert definingPolynomial
   derivationCoordinates generator lift reduce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MLO</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MonogenicLinearOperator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra BiModule Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coefficient degree leadingCoefficient minimumDegree
   monomial reductum</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MONOID</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Monoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> One one? recip</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MDAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MultiDictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DictionaryOperations</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">duplicates insert! removeDuplicates!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MSAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MultiSetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MultiDictionary SetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MTSCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MultivariateTaylorSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Evalable InnerEvalable PartialDifferentialRing PowerSeriesCategory
   RadicalCategory TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coefficient extend integrate monomial order polynomial</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NAALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">NonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Module NonAssociativeRng</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">plenaryPower</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NASRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">NonAssociativeRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MonadWithUnit NonAssociativeRng</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">characteristic coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NARNG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">NonAssociativeRng</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup Monad</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">antiCommutator associator commutator</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OBJECT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OctonionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo Finite FullyEvalableOver
   FullyRetractableTo OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">abs conjugate imagE imagI imagJ imagK imagi imagj imagk inv norm octon rational
   rational? rationalIfCan real</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">A1AGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteLinearAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OAGROUP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedAbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup OrderedCancellationAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OAMONS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedAbelianMonoidSup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedCancellationAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">sup</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OAMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianMonoid OrderedAbelianSemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OASGP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedAbelianSemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianMonoid OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OCAMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedCancellationAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CancellationAbelianMonoid OrderedAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ORDFIN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedFinite</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Finite OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ORDMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Monoid OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OMAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedMultiSetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MultiSetAggregate PriorityQueueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">min</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ORDRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedAbelianGroup OrderedMonoid Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">abs negative? positive? sign</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ORDSET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> max min</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PADICCT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PAdicIntegerCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicZero EuclideanDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">approximate complete digits extend moduloP
   modulus order quotientByP sqrt</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PDRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PartialDifferentialRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">D differentiate</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PTRANFN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PartialTranscendentalFunctions</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">acosIfCan acoshIfCan acotIfCan acothIfCan acscIfCan acschIfCan
   asecIfCan asechIfCan asinIfCan asinhIfCan atanIfCan atanhIfCan cosIfCan coshIfCan cotIfCan cothIfCan cscIfCan cschIfCan
   expIfCan logIfCan nthRootIfCan secIfCan sechIfCan sinIfCan sinhIfCan tanIfCan tanhIfCan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PATAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Patternable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PATMAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PatternMatchable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">patternMatch</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PERMCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PermutationCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Group OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> cycle cycles elt eval orbit</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PPCURVE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PlottablePlaneCurveCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">listBranches xRange yRange</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PSCURVE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PlottableSpaceCurveCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">listBranches xRange yRange zRange</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PTCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PointCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">VectorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">convert cross dimension extend length point</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">POLYCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo Evalable FiniteAbelianMonoidRing FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver
   GcdDomain InnerEvalable OrderedSet PartialDifferentialRing PatternMatchable PolynomialFactorizationExplicit
   RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coefficient content degree discriminant isExpt isPlus isTimes mainVariable minimumDegree monicDivide
   monomial monomials multivariate primitiveMonomials primitivePart resultant squareFree squareFreePart totalDegree
   univariate variables</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PFECAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PolynomialFactorizationExplicit</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UniqueFactorizationDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">charthRoot conditionP factorPolynomial
   factorSquareFreePolynomial gcdPolynomial solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFreePolynomial</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PSCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PowerSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianMonoidRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">complete monomial pole? variables</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PRIMCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PrimitiveFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">integral</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PID</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PrincipalIdealDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">GcdDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">expressIdealMember principalIdeal</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PRQAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PriorityQueueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BagAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">max merge merge!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QUATCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">QuaternionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo
   DifferentialExtension DivisionRing EntireRing FullyEvalableOver FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver FullyRetractableTo
   OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">abs conjugate imagI imagJ imagK norm quatern rational rational? rationalIfCan real</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QUAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">QueueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BagAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">back dequeue! enqueue! front length rotate!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QFCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo
   DifferentialExtension Field FullyEvalableOver FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver FullyPatternMatchable OrderedRing
   OrderedSet Patternable PolynomialFactorizationExplicit RealConstant RetractableTo StepThrough</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">/</span> ceiling denom
   denominator floor fractionPart numer numerator random wholePart</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RADCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RadicalCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> nthRoot sqrt</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">REAL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RealConstant</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RNS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RealNumberSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo Field OrderedRing PatternMatchable RadicalCategory
   RealConstant RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">abs ceiling floor fractionPart norm round truncate wholePart</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RMATCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RectangularMatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BiModule HomogeneousAggregate Module</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">/</span> antisymmetric? column
   diagonal? elt exquo listOfLists map matrix maxColIndex maxRowIndex minColIndex minRowIndex ncols nrows nullSpace
   nullity qelt rank row rowEchelon square? symmetric?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RCAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">HomogeneousAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">children cyclic? elt leaf? leaves node? nodes setchildren!
   setelt setvalue! value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RETRACT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce retract retractIfCan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RMODULE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RightModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LeftModule Monoid Rng</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">characteristic coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RNG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Rng</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup SemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEGCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SegmentCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">BY SEGMENT convert hi high incr lo low segment</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEGXCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SegmentExpansionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SegmentCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">expand map</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SGROUP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SETAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Collection SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> brace difference intersect subset? symmetricDifference
   union</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SETCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span></td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEXCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SExpressionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> atom? car cdr convert destruct elt eq expr float float?
   integer integer? list? null? pair? string string? symbol symbol? uequal</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SPFCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SpecialFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">Beta Gamma abs airyAi airyBi besselI besselJ besselK besselY digamma
   polygamma</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SMATCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SquareMatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra BiModule DifferentialExtension FullyLinearlyExplicitRingOver
   FullyRetractableTo Module RectangularMatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> determinant diagonal diagonalMatrix
   diagonalProduct inverse minordet scalarMatrix trace</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SKAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">StackAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BagAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">depth pop! push! top</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STEP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">StepThrough</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">init nextItem</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">StreamAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LinearAggregate UnaryRecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">explicitlyFinite? possiblyInfinite?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SRAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">StringAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce elt leftTrim lowerCase lowerCase! match match?
   position prefix? replace rightTrim split substring? suffix? trim upperCase upperCase!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STRICAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">StringCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">StringAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">string</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TBAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IndexedAggregate KeyedDictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">map setelt table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SPACEC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ThreeSpaceCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">check closedCurve closedCurve? coerce components composite composites
   copy create3Space curve curve? enterPointData lllip lllp llprop lp lprop merge mesh mesh? modifyPointData
   numberOfComponents numberOfComposites objects point point? polygon polygon? subspace</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TRANFUN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ArcHyperbolicFunctionCategory ArcTrigonometricFunctionCategory
   ElementaryFunctionCategory HyperbolicFunctionCategory TrigonometricFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">pi</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TRIGCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TrigonometricFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">cos cot csc sec sin tan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ARR2CAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">HomogeneousAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">column elt fill! map map! maxColIndex maxRowIndex
   minColIndex minRowIndex ncols new nrows parts qelt qsetelt! row setColumn! setRow! setelt</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">URAGG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnaryRecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">concat concat! cycleEntry cycleLength cycleSplit!
   cycleTail elt first last rest second setelt setfirst! setlast! setrest! split! tail third</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UFD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UniqueFactorizationDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">GcdDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">factor prime? squareFree squareFreePart</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ULSCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariateLaurentSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Field RadicalCategory TranscendentalFunctionCategory
   UnivariatePowerSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">integrate multiplyCoefficients rationalFunction</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ULSCCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariateLaurentSeriesConstructorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory RetractableTo
   UnivariateLaurentSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce degree laurent removeZeroes taylor taylorIfCan taylorRep</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UPOLYC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialExtension DifferentialRing Eltable EuclideanDomain
   PolynomialCategory StepThrough</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">D composite differentiate discriminant divideExponents elt integrate makeSUP
   monicDivide multiplyExponents order pseudoDivide pseudoQuotient pseudoRemainder resultant separate subResultantGcd
   unmakeSUP vectorise</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UPSCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePowerSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialRing Eltable PowerSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">approximate center elt
   eval extend multiplyExponents order series terms truncate variable</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UPXSCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePuiseuxSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Field RadicalCategory TranscendentalFunctionCategory
   UnivariatePowerSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">integrate multiplyExponents</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UPXSCCA</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePuiseuxSeriesConstructorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RetractableTo UnivariatePuiseuxSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce
   degree laurent laurentIfCan laurentRep puiseux rationalPower</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UTSCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariateTaylorSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RadicalCategory TranscendentalFunctionCategory
   UnivariatePowerSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> coefficients integrate multiplyCoefficients polynomial quoByVar series</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VECTCAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">VectorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> dot zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VSPACE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">VectorSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Module</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">/</span> dimension</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.28.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.28  )what</a><a href="section-18.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 18.1  Axiom Domains</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>