<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section3.7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-3.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.6 Search Strings</a><a href="section-3.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.8 X Window Resources for HyperDoc</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-3.7">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">3.7  Example Pages</h2>


<a name="ugHyperExample" class="label"/>


<p>Many pages have Axiom example commands.
</p>


<p>Each command has an active ``button'' along the left margin.  When you
click on this button, the output for the command is ``pasted-in.''
Click again on the button and you see that the pasted-in output
disappears.
</p>


<p>Maybe you would like to run an example?  To do so, just click on any
part of its text!  When you do, the example line is copied into a new
interactive Axiom buffer for this HyperDoc page.
</p>


<p>Sometimes one example line cannot be run before you run an earlier one.
Don't worry---HyperDoc automatically runs all the necessary
lines in the right order!
</p>


<p>The new interactive Axiom buffer disappears when you leave HyperDoc.
If you want to get rid of it beforehand, use the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Cancel</span> button
of the X Window manager or issue the Axiom system command 
<span class="teletype">)close.</span>  <span class="index">close</span><a name="chapter-3-2"/>
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-3.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.6 Search Strings</a><a href="section-3.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.8 X Window Resources for HyperDoc</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>