<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section0.2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-0.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 0.1 Introduction to Axiom</a><a href="section-0.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 0.3 Using Axiom as a Pocket Calculator</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-0.2">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">0.2  A Technical Introduction</h2>


<a name="ugTechIntro" class="label"/>

<p>Axiom has both an <span class="italic">interactive language</span> for user
interactions and a <span class="italic">programming language</span> for building library
modules.  Like Modula 2, <span class="index">Modula 2</span><a name="chapter-0-2"/> PASCAL, <span class="index">PASCAL</span><a name="chapter-0-3"/>
FORTRAN, <span class="index">FORTRAN</span><a name="chapter-0-4"/> and Ada, <span class="index">Ada</span><a name="chapter-0-5"/> the programming language
emphasizes strict type-checking.  Unlike these languages, types in
Axiom are dynamic objects: they are created at run-time in
response to user commands.
</p>


<p>Here is the idea of the Axiom programming language in a
nutshell.  Axiom types range from algebraic ones (like
polynomials, matrices, and power series) to data structures (like
lists, dictionaries, and input files).  Types combine in any
meaningful way.  You can build polynomials of matrices, matrices of
polynomials of power series, hash tables with symbolic keys and
rational function entries, and so on.
</p>


<p><span class="italic">Categories</span> define algebraic properties to ensure mathematical
correctness. They ensure, for example, that matrices of polynomials
are OK, but matrices of input files are not.  Through categories,
programs can discover that polynomials of continued fractions have a
commutative multiplication whereas polynomials of matrices do not.
</p>


<p>Categories allow algorithms to be defined in their most natural
setting. For example, an algorithm can be defined to solve polynomial
equations over <span class="italic">any</span> field.  Likewise a greatest common divisor
can compute the ``gcd'' of two elements from <span class="italic">any</span> Euclidean
domain.  Categories foil attempts to compute meaningless ``gcds'', for
example, of two hashtables.  Categories also enable algorithms to be
compiled into machine code that can be run with arbitrary types.
</p>


<p>The Axiom interactive language is oriented towards ease-of-use.
The Axiom interpreter uses type-inferencing to deduce the type
of an object from user input.  Type declarations can generally be
omitted for common types in the interactive language.
</p>


<p>So much for the nutshell.
Here are these basic ideas described by ten design principles:
</p>



<a name="subsec-0.2.1"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.1">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.1  Types are Defined by Abstract Datatype Programs</h3>



<p>Basic types are called <span class="italic">domains of computation</span>, or,
simply, <span class="italic">domains.</span>
<span class="index">domain</span><a name="chapter-0-6"/>
Domains are defined by Axiom programs of the form:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
Name(...):&nbsp;Exports&nbsp;==&nbsp;Implementation<br />
</div>



<p>Each domain has a capitalized <span class="teletype">Name</span> that is used to refer to the
class of its members.  For example, <span class="teletype">Integer</span> denotes ``the
class of integers,'' <span class="teletype">Float</span>, ``the class of floating point
numbers,'' and <span class="teletype">String</span>, ``the class of strings.''
</p>


<p>The ``<span class="teletype">...</span>'' part following <span class="teletype">Name</span> lists zero or more
parameters to the constructor. Some basic ones like <span class="teletype">Integer</span> take
no parameters.  Others, like <span class="teletype">Matrix</span>, <span class="teletype">Polynomial</span> and 
<span class="teletype">List</span>, take a single parameter that again must be a domain.  For
example, <span class="teletype">Matrix(Integer)</span> denotes ``matrices over the integers,''
<span class="teletype">Polynomial (Float)</span> denotes ``polynomial with floating point
coefficients,'' and <span class="teletype">List (Matrix (Polynomial (Integer)))</span> denotes
``lists of matrices of polynomials over the integers.''  There is no
restriction on the number or type of parameters of a domain
constructor.
</p>


<p>SquareMatrix(2,Integer) is an example of a domain constructor that accepts
both a particular data value as well as an integer. In this case the
number 2 specifies the number of rows and columns the square matrix
will contain. Elements of the matricies are integers.
</p>


<p>The <span class="teletype">Exports</span> part specifies operations for creating and
manipulating objects of the domain.  For example, type
<span class="teletype">Integer</span> exports constants  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>0</mn></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>1</mn></mstyle></math>, and
operations <span class="spadopFrom" title="Integer">+</span>, <span class="spadopFrom" title="Integer">-</span>, and
<span class="spadopFrom" title="Integer">*</span>.  While these operations are common, others
such as <span class="spadfunFrom" >odd?</span><span class="index">odd?</span><a name="chapter-0-7"/><span class="index">Integer</span><a name="chapter-0-8"/> and <span class="spadfunFrom" >bit?</span><span class="index">bit?</span><a name="chapter-0-9"/><span class="index">Integer</span><a name="chapter-0-10"/>
are not. In addition the Exports section can contain symbols that
represent properties that can be tested. For example, the Category
<span class="teletype">EntireRing</span> has the symbol <span class="teletype">noZeroDivisors</span> which asserts
that if a product is zero then one of the factors must be zero.
</p>


<p>The <span class="teletype">Implementation</span> part defines functions that implement the
exported operations of the domain.  These functions are frequently
described in terms of another lower-level domain used to represent the
objects of the domain. Thus the operation of adding two vectors of
real numbers can be described and implemented using the addition
operation from <span class="teletype">Float</span>. 
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.2"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.2">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.2  The Type of Basic Objects is a Domain or Subdomain</h3>



<p>Every Axiom object belongs to a <span class="italic">unique</span> domain.  The domain
of an object is also called its <span class="italic">type.</span>  Thus the integer  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>7</mn></mstyle></math>
has type <span class="teletype">Integer</span> and the string <span class="teletype">"daniel"</span> has type
<span class="teletype">String</span>.
</p>


<p>The type of an object, however, is not unique.  The type of integer
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>7</mn></mstyle></math> is not only <span class="teletype">Integer</span> but <span class="teletype">NonNegativeInteger</span>,
<span class="teletype">PositiveInteger</span>, and possibly, in general, any other
``subdomain'' of the domain <span class="teletype">Integer</span>.  A <span class="italic">subdomain</span>
<span class="index">subdomain</span><a name="chapter-0-11"/> is a domain with a ``membership predicate''.
<span class="teletype">PositiveInteger</span> is a subdomain of <span class="teletype">Integer</span> with the
predicate ``is the integer  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>&gt;</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></mstyle></math>?''.
</p>


<p>Subdomains with names are defined by abstract datatype programs
similar to those for domains.  The <span class="italic">Export</span> part of a subdomain,
however, must list a subset of the exports of the domain.  The <span class="teletype">Implementation</span> part optionally gives special definitions for
subdomain objects.
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.3"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.3">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.3  Domains Have Types Called Categories</h3>



<p>Domain and subdomains in Axiom are themselves objects that have
types.  The type of a domain or subdomain is called a <span class="italic">category</span>.
<span class="index">category</span><a name="chapter-0-12"/> Categories are described by programs of the form:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
Name(...):&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==&nbsp;Exports<br />
</div>


<p>The type of every category is the distinguished symbol <span class="teletype">Category.</span>
The category <span class="teletype">Name</span> is used to designate the class of domains of
that type.  For example, category <span class="teletype">Ring</span> designates the class
of all rings.  Like domains, categories can take zero or more
parameters as indicated by the ``<span class="teletype">...</span>'' part following <span class="teletype">Name.</span>  Two examples are <span class="teletype">Module(R)</span> and
<span class="teletype">MatrixCategory(R,Row,Col)</span>.
</p>


<p>The <span class="teletype">Exports</span> part defines a set of operations.  For example,
<span class="teletype">Ring</span> exports the operations <span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">0</span>,
<span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">1</span>, <span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">+</span>, <span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">-</span>, and
<span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">*</span>.  Many algebraic domains such as
<span class="teletype">Integer</span> and <span class="teletype">Polynomial (Float)</span> are rings.
<span class="teletype">String</span> and <span class="teletype">List (R)</span> (for any domain  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math>)
are not.
</p>


<p>Categories serve to ensure the type-correctness.  The definition of
matrices states <span class="teletype">Matrix(R: Ring)</span> requiring its single parameter
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math> to be a ring.  Thus a ``matrix of polynomials'' is allowed,
but ``matrix of lists'' is not.
</p>


<p>Categories say nothing about representation. Domains, which are
instances of category types, specify representations.
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.4"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.4">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.4  Operations Can Refer To Abstract Types</h3>



<p>All operations have prescribed source and target types.  Types can be
denoted by symbols that stand for domains, called ``symbolic
domains.''  The following lines of Axiom code use a symbolic
domain  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math>:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
R:&nbsp;Ring<br />
power:&nbsp;(R,&nbsp;NonNegativeInteger):&nbsp;R&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;R<br />
power(x,&nbsp;n)&nbsp;==&nbsp;x&nbsp;**&nbsp;n<br />
</div>



<p>Line 1 declares the symbol  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math> to be a ring.  Line 2 declares the
type of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>power</mi></mstyle></math> in terms of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math>.  From the definition on
line 3,  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>power</mi><mo>(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> produces 9 for  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>3</mn></mrow></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>R</mi><mo>=</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>
<span class="teletype">Integer</span>.  Also,  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>power</mi><mo>(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>.</mo><mn>0</mn><mo>,</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> produces  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mn>9</mn><mo>.</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></mstyle></math> for
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>.</mo><mn>0</mn></mrow></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>R</mi><mo>=</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> <span class="teletype">Float</span>.
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>power</mi><mo>(</mo><mo>"</mo><mi>oxford</mi><mo>"</mo><mo>,</mo><mn>2</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> however fails since  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>"</mo><mi>oxford</mi><mo>"</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> has type
<span class="teletype">String</span> which is not a ring.
</p>


<p>Using symbolic domains, algorithms can be defined in their most
natural or general setting.
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.5"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.5">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.5  Categories Form Hierarchies</h3>



<p>Categories form hierarchies (technically, directed-acyclic graphs).  A
simplified hierarchical world of algebraic categories is shown below.
At the top of this world is <span class="teletype">SetCategory</span>, the class of
algebraic sets.  The notions of parents, ancestors, and descendants is
clear.  Thus ordered sets (domains of category <span class="teletype">OrderedSet</span>)
and rings are also algebraic sets.  Likewise, fields and integral
domains are rings and algebraic sets.  However fields and integral
domains are not ordered sets.
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
SetCategory&nbsp;+----&nbsp;Ring&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;----&nbsp;IntegralDomain&nbsp;----&nbsp;Field<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;+----&nbsp;Finite&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;---+<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;\<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;+----&nbsp;OrderedSet&nbsp;-----+&nbsp;OrderedFinite<br />
</div>




<div class="center" style="text-align: center;">


<p>Figure 1.  A  simplified category hierarchy.
</p>



</div>





</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.6"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.6">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.6  Domains Belong to Categories by Assertion</h3>



<p>A category designates a class of domains.  Which domains?  You might
think that <span class="teletype">Ring</span> designates the class of all domains that
export  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>0</mn></mstyle></math>,  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>1</mn></mstyle></math>, <span class="spadopFrom" title="Integer">+</span>,
<span class="spadopFrom" title="Integer">-</span>, and <span class="spadopFrom" title="Integer">*</span>.  But this is not
so.  Each domain must <span class="italic">assert</span> which categories it belongs to.
</p>


<p>The <span class="teletype">Export</span> part of the definition for <span class="teletype">Integer</span> reads,
for example:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
Join(OrderedSet,&nbsp;IntegralDomain,&nbsp;&nbsp;...)&nbsp;with&nbsp;...<br />
</div>



<p>This definition asserts that <span class="teletype">Integer</span> is both an ordered set
and an integral domain.  In fact, <span class="teletype">Integer</span> does not
explicitly export constants  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>0</mn></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>1</mn></mstyle></math> and operations
<span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">+</span>, <span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">-</span> and <span class="spadopFrom" title="Ring">*</span> at
all: it inherits them all from  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>Ring</mi></mstyle></math>!  Since
<span class="teletype">IntegralDomain</span> is a descendant of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>Ring</mi></mstyle></math>,
<span class="teletype">Integer</span> is therefore also a ring.
</p>


<p>Assertions can be conditional.  For example, <span class="teletype">Complex(R)</span>
defines its exports by:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
Ring&nbsp;with&nbsp;...&nbsp;if&nbsp;R&nbsp;has&nbsp;Field&nbsp;then&nbsp;Field&nbsp;...<br />
</div>


<p>Thus <span class="teletype">Complex(Float)</span> is a field but <span class="teletype">Complex(Integer)</span>
is not since <span class="teletype">Integer</span> is not a field.
</p>


<p>You may wonder: ``Why not simply let the set of operations determine
whether a domain belongs to a given category?''.  Axiom allows
operation names (for example, <span style="font-weight: bold;"> norm</span>) to have very different
meanings in different contexts.  The meaning of an operation in
Axiom is determined by context.  By associating operations with
categories, operation names can be reused whenever appropriate or
convenient to do so.  As a simple example, the operation <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
might be used to denote lexicographic-comparison in an algorithm.
However, it is wrong to use the same <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> with this definition
of absolute-value: <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mi>abs</mi><mo>(</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>)</mo><mo>=</mo><mo>=</mo><mi>if</mi><mspace width="0.5 em" /><mi>x</mi><mo>&lt;</mo><mn>0</mn><mspace width="0.5 em" /><mi>then</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>x</mi><mspace width="0.5 em" /><mi>else</mi><mspace width="0.5 em" /><mi>x</mi></mrow></mstyle></math> Such a
definition for <span class="teletype">abs</span> in Axiom is protected by context:
argument  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>x</mi></mstyle></math> is required to be a member of a domain of category
<span class="teletype">OrderedSet</span>.
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.7"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.7">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.7  Packages Are Clusters of Polymorphic Operations</h3>



<p>In Axiom, facilities for symbolic integration, solution of
equations, and the like are placed in ``packages''.  A <span class="italic">package</span>
<span class="index">package</span><a name="chapter-0-13"/> is a special kind of domain: one whose exported
operations depend solely on the parameters of the constructor and/or
explicit domains. Packages, unlike Domains, do not specify the
representation.
</p>


<p>If you want to use Axiom, for example, to define some algorithms
for solving equations of polynomials over an arbitrary field  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>F</mi></mstyle></math>,
you can do so with a package of the form:
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
MySolve(F:&nbsp;Field):&nbsp;Exports&nbsp;==&nbsp;Implementation<br />
</div>


<p>where <span class="teletype">Exports</span> specifies the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> solve</span> operations
you wish to export from the domain and the <span class="teletype">Implementation</span>
defines functions for implementing your algorithms.  Once Axiom has
compiled your package, your algorithms can then be used for any <span class="teletype">F</span>:
floating-point numbers, rational numbers, complex rational functions,
and power series, to name a few.
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.8"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.8">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.8  The Interpreter Builds Domains Dynamically</h3>



<p>The Axiom interpreter reads user input then builds whatever types
it needs to perform the indicated computations.
For example, to create the matrix
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle></mstyle></math>
using the command:
</p>




<div id="spadComm0-21" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm0-21" action="javascript:makeRequest('0-21');" >
<input id="comm0-21" type="text" class="command" style="width: 36em;" value="M = [ [x**2+1,0],[0,x / 2] ]::Matrix(POLY(FRAC(INT)))" />
</form>
<span id="commSav0-21" class="commSav" >M = [ [x**2+1,0],[0,x / 2] ]::Matrix(POLY(FRAC(INT)))</span>
<div id="mathAns0-21" ></div>
</div>


<div class="math">
<table>
<tr><td>
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mi>M</mi><mo>=</mo><mrow><mo>[</mo><mtable><mtr><mtd><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup><mo>+</mo><mn>1</mn></mtd><mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mn>0</mn></mtd><mtd><mi>x</mi><mo>/</mo><mn>2</mn></mtd></mtr></mtable><mo>]</mo></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>




<div class="returnType">
Type: Matrix Polynomial Fraction Integer
</div>


<p>the interpreter first loads the modules <span class="teletype">Matrix</span>,
<span class="teletype">Polynomial</span>, <span class="teletype">Fraction</span>, and <span class="teletype">Integer</span>
from the library, then builds the <span class="italic">domain tower</span> ``matrices of
polynomials of rational numbers (i.e. fractions of integers)''.
</p>


<p>You can watch the loading process by first typing 
</p>




<div id="spadComm0-22" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm0-22" action="javascript:makeRequest('0-22');" >
<input id="comm0-22" type="text" class="command" style="width: 16em;" value=")set message autoload on" />
</form>
<span id="commSav0-22" class="commSav" >)set message autoload on</span>
<div id="mathAns0-22" ></div>
</div>


<p>In addition to the named
domains above many additional domains and categories are loaded.
Most systems are preloaded with such common types. For efficiency
reasons the most common domains are preloaded but most (there are
more than 1100 domains, categories, and packages) are not. Once these
domains are loaded they are immediately available to the interpreter.
</p>


<p>Once a domain tower is built, it contains all the operations specific
to the type. Computation proceeds by calling operations that exist in
the tower.  For example, suppose that the user asks to square the
above matrix.  To do this, the function <span class="spadopFrom" title="Matrix">*</span> from
<span class="teletype">Matrix</span> is passed the matrix  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>M</mi></mstyle></math> to compute  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>M</mi><mo>*</mo><mi>M</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>.  
The function is also passed an environment containing  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math>
that, in this case, is <span class="teletype">Polynomial (Fraction (Integer))</span>.
This results in the successive calling of the <span class="spadopFrom" title="Fraction">*</span>
operations from <span class="teletype">Polynomial</span>, then from <span class="teletype">Fraction</span>,
and then finally from <span class="teletype">Integer</span>.
</p>


<p>Categories play a policing role in the building of domains.  Because
the argument of <span class="teletype">Matrix</span> is required to be a <span class="teletype">Ring</span>,
Axiom will not build nonsensical types such as ``matrices of
input files''.
</p>




</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.9"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.9">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.9  Axiom Code is Compiled</h3>



<p>Axiom programs are statically compiled to machine code, then
placed into library modules.  Categories provide an important role in
obtaining efficient object code by enabling:
</p>



<ul>
<li>
 static type-checking at compile time;
</li>
<li> fast linkage to operations in domain-valued parameters;
</li>
<li> optimization techniques to be used for partially specified types
(operations for ``vectors of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math>'', for instance, can be open-coded even
though <span class="teletype">R</span> is unknown).
</li>
</ul>





</div>



<a name="subsec-0.2.10"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-0.2.10">
<h3 class="subsectitle">0.2.10  Axiom is Extensible</h3>



<p>Users and system implementers alike use the Axiom language to
add facilities to the Axiom library.  The entire Axiom
library is in fact written in the Axiom source code and
available for user modification and/or extension.
</p>


<p>Axiom's use of abstract datatypes clearly separates the exports
of a domain (what operations are defined) from its implementation (how
the objects are represented and operations are defined).  Users of a
domain can thus only create and manipulate objects through these
exported operations.  This allows implementers to ``remove and
replace'' parts of the library safely by newly upgraded (and, we hope,
correct) implementations without consequence to its users.
</p>


<p>Categories protect names by context, making the same names available
for use in other contexts.  Categories also provide for code-economy.
Algorithms can be parameterized categorically to characterize their
correct and most general context.  Once compiled, the same machine
code is applicable in all such contexts.
</p>


<p>Finally, Axiom provides an automatic, guaranteed interaction
between new and old code.  For example:
</p>



<ul>
<li>
 if you write a new algorithm that requires a parameter to be a
field, then your algorithm will work automatically with every field
defined in the system; past, present, or future.
</li>
<li> if you introduce a new domain constructor that produces a field,
then the objects of that domain can be used as parameters to any algorithm
using field objects defined in the system; past, present, or future.
</li>
</ul>



<p>These are the key ideas.  For further information, we particularly
recommend your reading chapters 11, 12, and 13, where these ideas are
explained in greater detail.
</p>




</div>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-0.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 0.1 Introduction to Axiom</a><a href="section-0.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 0.3 Using Axiom as a Pocket Calculator</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>