<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section13.5</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-13.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 13.4 A Demo</a><a href="section-13.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 13.6 Representation</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-13.5">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">13.5  Browse</h2>


<a name="ugDomainsBrowse" class="label"/>


<p>The Browse facility of HyperDoc is useful for
investigating
the properties of domains, packages, and categories.
From the main HyperDoc menu, move your mouse to <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Browse</span> and
click on the left mouse button.
This brings up the Browse first page.
Now, with your mouse pointer somewhere in this window, enter the
string ``quadraticform'' into the input area (all lower case
letters will do).
Move your mouse to <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Constructors</span> and click.
Up comes a page describing <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>.
</p>


<p>From here, click on <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Description</span>.
This gives you a page that includes a part labeled by ``<span class="italic">
Description:</span>''.
You also see the types for arguments <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math> and <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>K</mi></mstyle></math>
displayed as well as the fact that <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>
returns an <span class="teletype"> AbelianGroup</span>.
You can go and experiment a bit by selecting <span class="teletype"> Field</span> with
your mouse.
Eventually, use the ``UP'' button
several times to return to the first page on
<span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>.
</p>


<p>Select <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Operations</span> to get a list of operations for
<span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>.
You can select an operation by clicking on it
to get an individual page with information about that operation.
Or you can select the buttons along the bottom to see alternative
views or get additional information on the operations.
Then return to the page on <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>.
</p>


<p>Select <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Cross Reference</span> to get another menu.
This menu has buttons for <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Parents</span>, <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Ancestors</span>, and
others.
Clicking on <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Parents</span>, you see that <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>
has one parent <span class="teletype"> AbelianMonoid</span>.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-13.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 13.4 A Demo</a><a href="section-13.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 13.6 Representation</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>