<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section13.10</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-13.9.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 13.9 Defaults</a><a href="section-13.11.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 13.11 Short Forms</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-13.10">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">13.10  Origins</h2>


<a name="ugDomainsOrigins" class="label"/>



<p>Aside from the notion of where an operation is implemented,
<span class="index">operation:origin</span><a name="chapter-13-12"/>
a useful notion is  the <span class="italic"> origin</span> or ``home'' of an operation.
When an operation (such as
<span class="spadfunFrom" style="font-weight: bold;">quadraticForm</span><span class="index">quadraticForm</span><a name="chapter-13-13"/><span class="index">QuadraticForm</span><a name="chapter-13-14"/>) is explicitly exported by
a domain (such as <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>), you can say that the
origin of that operation is that domain.
If an operation is not explicitly exported from a domain, it is inherited
from, and has as origin, the (closest) category that explicitly exports it.
The operations <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>+</mo></mstyle></math> and <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>-</mo></mstyle></math> (from AbelianMonoid) of <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>,
for example, are inherited from <span class="teletype"> AbelianMonoid</span>.
As it turns out, <span class="teletype"> AbelianMonoid</span> is the origin of virtually every
<span class="teletype"> +</span> operation in Axiom!
</p>


<p>Again, you can use Browse to discover the origins of
operations.
From the Browse page on <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>, click on <span style="font-weight: bold;">
Operations</span>, then on <span style="font-weight: bold;"> origins</span> at the bottom of the page.
</p>


<p>The origin of the operation is the <span class="italic"> only</span> place where on-line
documentation is given.
However, you can re-export an operation to give it special
documentation.
Suppose you have just invented the world's fastest algorithm for
inverting matrices using a particular internal representation for
matrices.
If your matrix domain just declares that it exports
<span class="teletype"> MatrixCategory</span>, it exports the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> inverse</span>
operation, but the documentation the user gets from Browse is
the standard one from <span class="teletype"> MatrixCategory</span>.
To give your version of <span style="font-weight: bold;"> inverse</span> the attention it
deserves, simply export the operation explicitly with new
documentation.
This redundancy gives <span style="font-weight: bold;"> inverse</span> a new origin and tells
Browse to present your new documentation.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-13.9.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 13.9 Defaults</a><a href="section-13.11.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 13.11 Short Forms</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>