<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.10 )fin</a><a href="section-16.12.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.12 )help</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.11">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.11  )frame</h2>


<a name="ugSysCmdframe" class="label"/>

<p><span class="index">ugSysCmdframe</span><a name="chapter-16-72"/>
</p>


<p><span class="index">frame</span><a name="chapter-16-73"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> interpreter
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
<span class="teletype">)frame  new  <span class="italic">frameName</span></span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)frame  drop  <span class="italic">[frameName]</span></span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)frame  next</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)frame  last</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)frame  names</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)frame  import <span class="italic">frameName</span> <span class="italic">[objectName1 [objectName2 ...]]</span></span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)set message frame on | off</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)set message prompt frame</span>
</div>
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>A <span class="italic">frame</span> can be thought of as a logical session within the
physical session that you get when you start the system.  You can
have as many frames as you want, within the limits of your computer's
storage, paging space, and so on.
Each frame has its own <span class="italic">step number</span>, <span class="italic">environment</span> and <span class="italic">history.</span>
You can have a variable named <span class="teletype">a</span> in one frame and it will
have nothing to do with anything that might be called <span class="teletype">a</span> in
any other frame.
</p>


<p>Some frames are created by the HyperDoc program and these can
have pretty strange names, since they are generated automatically.
<span class="index">frame names</span><a name="chapter-16-74"/>
To find out the names
of all frames, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;names<br />
</div>


<p>It will indicate the name of the current frame.
</p>


<p>You create a new frame
<span class="index">frame new</span><a name="chapter-16-75"/>
``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> quark</span>'' by issuing
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;new&nbsp;quark<br />
</div>


<p>The history facility can be turned on by issuing either
<span class="teletype">)set history on</span> or <span class="teletype">)history )on</span>.
If the history facility is on and you are saving history information
in a file rather than in the Axiom environment
then a history file with filename <span style="font-weight: bold;"> quark.axh</span> will
be created as you enter commands.
If you wish to go back to what
you were doing in the
<span class="index">frame next</span><a name="chapter-16-76"/>
``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> initial</span>'' frame, use
<span class="index">frame last</span><a name="chapter-16-77"/>
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;next<br />
</div>


<p>or
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;last<br />
</div>


<p>to cycle through the ring of available frames to get back to
``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> initial</span>''.
</p>


<p>If you want to throw
away a frame (say ``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> quark</span>''), issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;drop&nbsp;quark<br />
</div>


<p>If you omit the name, the current frame is dropped.
<span class="index">frame drop</span><a name="chapter-16-78"/>
</p>


<p>If you do use frames with the history facility on and writing to a file,
you may want to delete some of the older history files.
<span class="index">file:history</span><a name="chapter-16-79"/>
These are directories, so you may want to issue a command like
<span class="teletype">rm -r quark.axh</span> to the operating system.
</p>


<p>You can bring things from another frame by using
<span class="index">frame import</span><a name="chapter-16-80"/>
<span class="teletype">)frame import</span>.
For example, to bring the <span class="teletype">f</span> and <span class="teletype">g</span> from the frame ``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> quark</span>''
to the current frame, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;import&nbsp;quark&nbsp;f&nbsp;g<br />
</div>


<p>If you want everything from the frame ``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> quark</span>'', issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)frame&nbsp;import&nbsp;quark<br />
</div>


<p>You will be asked to verify that you really want everything.
</p>


<p>There are two <span class="teletype">)set</span> flags
<span class="index">set message frame</span><a name="chapter-16-81"/>
to make it easier to tell where you are.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;message&nbsp;frame&nbsp;on&nbsp;|&nbsp;off<br />
</div>


<p>will print more messages about frames when it is set on.
By default, it is off.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;message&nbsp;prompt&nbsp;frame<br />
</div>


<p>will give a prompt
<span class="index">set message prompt frame</span><a name="chapter-16-82"/>
that looks like
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
initial&nbsp;(1)&nbsp;-&gt;<br />
</div>


<p><span class="index">prompt:with frame name</span><a name="chapter-16-83"/>
when you start up. In this case, the frame name and step make up the
prompt.
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)history</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdhistory</span><a name="chapter-16-84"/> and
<span class="teletype">)set</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdset</span><a name="chapter-16-85"/>.
</p>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.10 )fin</a><a href="section-16.12.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.12 )help</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>