<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section1.0</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-0.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 0.7  Functions, Choices, and Loops</a><a href="section-1.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 1.1 Starting Up and Winding Down</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-1.0">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">1.0 An Overview of Axiom</h2>


<div class="quote" >


<p>When we start cataloging the gains in tools sitting on a computer, the 
benefits of software are amazing. But, if the benefits of software are
so great, why do we worry about making it easier -- don't the ends pay 
for the means? We worry becuase making such software is extraordinarily
hard and almost no one can do it -- the detail is exhausting, the 
creativity required is extreme, the hours of failure upon failure
requiring patience and persistence would tax anyone claiming to be
sane. Yet we require people with such characteristics be found and
employed and employed cheaply.
</p>


<p>-- Christopher Alexander
</p>


<p>(from Patterns of Software by Richard Gabriel)
</p>




</div>


<a name="ugIntro" class="label"/>


<p>Welcome to the Axiom environment for interactive computation and
problem solving.  Consider this chapter a brief, whirlwind tour of the
Axiom world.  We introduce you to Axiom's graphics and the
Axiom language.  Then we give a sampling of the large variety of
facilities in the Axiom system, ranging from the various kinds
of numbers, to data types (like lists, arrays, and sets) and
mathematical objects (like matrices, integrals, and differential
equations).  We conclude with the discussion of system commands and an
interactive ``undo.''
</p>


<p>Before embarking on the tour, we need to brief those readers working
interactively with Axiom on some details. 
</p>

</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-0.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 0.7  Functions, Choices, and Loops</a><a href="section-1.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 1.1 Starting Up and Winding Down</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>