<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section1.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-1.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 1.0 An Overview of Axiom</a><a href="section-1.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 1.2 Typographic Conventions</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-1.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">1.1  Starting Up and Winding Down</h2>


<a name="ugIntroStart" class="label"/>

<p>You need to know how to start the Axiom system and how to stop it.
We assume that Axiom has been correctly installed on your
machine (as described in another Axiom document).
</p>


<p>To begin using Axiom, issue the command <span style="font-weight: bold;"> axiom</span> to the
Axiom operating system shell.
<span class="index">axiom @<span style="font-weight: bold;"> axiom</span><a name="chapter-1-0"/></span> There is a brief pause, some start-up
messages, and then one or more windows appear.
</p>


<p>If you are not running Axiom under the X Window System, there is
only one window (the console).  At the lower left of the screen there
is a prompt that <span class="index">prompt</span><a name="chapter-1-1"/> looks like
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
(1)&nbsp;-&gt;<br />
</div>



<p>When you want to enter input to Axiom, you do so on the same
line after the prompt.  The ``1'' in ``(1)'', also called the equation
number, is the computation step number and is incremented 
<span class="index">step number</span><a name="chapter-1-2"/> after you enter Axiom statements.  
Note, however, that a system command such as <span class="teletype">)clear all</span> 
may change the step number in other ways.  We talk about step numbers 
more when we discuss system commands and the workspace history facility.
</p>


<p>If you are running Axiom under the X Window System, there may be
two <span class="index">X Window System</span><a name="chapter-1-3"/> windows: the console window (as just
described) and the HyperDoc main menu.  <span class="index">Hyper@{HyperDoc}</span><a name="chapter-1-4"/> 
HyperDoc is a multiple-window hypertext system
that lets you <span class="index">window</span><a name="chapter-1-5"/> view Axiom documentation and
examples on-line, execute Axiom expressions, and generate
graphics.  If you are in a graphical windowing environment, it is
usually started automatically when Axiom begins.  If it is not
running, issue <span class="teletype">)hd</span> to start it.  We discuss the basics of
HyperDoc in Chapter <a href="section-3.0.xhtml#ugHyper" class="ref" >ugHyper</a> .  
</p>


<p>To interrupt an Axiom computation, hold down the <span class="index">interrupt</span><a name="chapter-1-6"/> 
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> Ctrl</span> (control) key and press <span style="font-weight: bold;"> c</span>.  This brings you back to 
the Axiom prompt.
</p>




<div class="boxed2">


<div class="boxed">



<p>To exit from Axiom, move to the console window, <span class="index">stopping
@{stopping Axiom}</span><a name="chapter-1-7"/> type <span class="teletype">)quit</span> <span class="index">exiting @{exiting
Axiom}</span><a name="chapter-1-8"/> at the input prompt and press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Enter</span> key.
You will probably be prompted with the following
message:
</p>



<div class="center" style="text-align: center;">


<p>Please enter <span style="font-weight: bold;"> y</span> or <span style="font-weight: bold;"> yes</span> if you really want to leave the <br/>
interactive environment and return to the operating system
</p>



</div>


<p>You should respond <span style="font-weight: bold;"> yes</span>, for example, to exit Axiom.<br/>
</p>



</div>
</div>



<p>We are purposely vague in describing exactly what your screen looks
like or what messages Axiom displays.  Axiom runs on a number of
different machines, operating systems and window environments, and
these differences all affect the physical look of the system.  You can
also change the way that Axiom behaves via <span class="italic">system commands</span>
described later in this chapter and in Appendix A.
System commands are special commands, like <span class="teletype">)set</span>, that begin with
a closing parenthesis and are used to change your environment.  For
example, you can set a system variable so that you are not prompted
for confirmation when you want to leave Axiom.
</p>



<a name="subsec-1.1.1"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-1.1.1">
<h3 class="subsectitle">1.1.1  Clef</h3>


<a name="ugAvailCLEF" class="label"/>

<p>If you are using Axiom under the X Window System, the
<span class="index">Clef</span><a name="chapter-1-9"/> <span class="index">command line editor</span><a name="chapter-1-10"/> Clef command
line editor is probably available and installed.  With this editor you
can recall previous lines with the up and down arrow keys.  To move
forward and backward on a line, use the right and left arrows.  You
can use the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Insert</span> key to toggle insert mode on or off.  When
you are in insert mode, the cursor appears as a large block and if you
type anything, the characters are inserted into the line without
deleting the previous ones.
</p>


<p>If you press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Home</span> key, the cursor moves to the beginning of
the line and if you press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> End</span> key, the cursor moves to the
end of the line.  Pressing <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Ctrl-End</span> deletes all the text from
the cursor to the end of the line.
</p>


<p>Clef also provides Axiom operation name completion for
<span class="index">operation name completion</span><a name="chapter-1-11"/> a limited set of operations.  If you
enter a few letters and then press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Tab</span> key, Clef tries to
use those letters as the prefix of an Axiom operation name.  If
a name appears and it is not what you want, press <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Tab</span> again to
see another name.
</p>


<p>You are ready to begin your journey into the world of Axiom.
</p>




</div>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-1.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 1.0 An Overview of Axiom</a><a href="section-1.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 1.2 Typographic Conventions</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>