<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section3.3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-3.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.2 Key Definitions</a><a href="section-3.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.4 Input Areas</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-3.3">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">3.3  Scroll Bars</h2>


<a name="ugHyperScroll" class="label"/>


<p>Whenever there is too much text to fit on a page, a 
<span class="italic">scroll <span class="index">scroll bar</span><a name="chapter-3-1"/> bar</span> 
automatically appears along the right side.
</p>


<p>With a scroll bar, your page becomes an aperture, that is, a window
into a larger amount of text than can be displayed at one time.  The
scroll bar lets you move up and down in the text to see different
parts.  It also shows where the aperture is relative to the whole
text.  The aperture is indicated by a strip on the scroll bar.
</p>


<p>Move the cursor with the mouse to the ``down-arrow'' at the bottom of
the scroll bar and click.  See that the aperture moves down one line.
Do it several times.  Each time you click, the aperture moves down one
line.  Move the mouse to the ``up-arrow'' at the top of the scroll bar
and click.  The aperture moves up one line each time you click.
</p>


<p>Next move the mouse to any position along the middle of the scroll bar
and click.  HyperDoc attempts to move the top of the aperture to this
point in the text.
</p>


<p>You cannot make the aperture go off the bottom edge.  When the
aperture is about half the size of text, the lowest you can move the
aperture is halfway down.
</p>


<p>To move up or down one screen at a time, use the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> PageUp</span> and 
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> PageDown</span> keys on your keyboard.  They move the visible part of the
region up and down one page each time you press them.
</p>


<p>If the HyperDoc page does not contain an input area (see
<a href="section-3.4.xhtml#ugHyperInput" class="ref" >ugHyperInput</a> ), you can also use
the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Home</span> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2191;</mo></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2193;</mo></mstyle></math>
arrow keys to navigate.  When you press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Home</span> key, the
screen is positioned at the very top of the page.  Use the
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2191;</mo></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2193;</mo></mstyle></math> arrow keys to move the
screen up and down one line at a time, respectively.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-3.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.2 Key Definitions</a><a href="section-3.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.4 Input Areas</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>