<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section12.3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-12.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.2 Exports</a><a href="section-12.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.4 Hierarchies</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-12.3">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">12.3  Documentation</h2>


<a name="ugCategoriesDoc" class="label"/>


<p>The definition of <span class="teletype">SetCategory</span> above is  missing
an important component: its library documentation.
<span class="index">documentation</span><a name="chapter-12-10"/>
Here is its definition, complete with documentation.
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
++&nbsp;Description:<br />
++&nbsp;\bs{}axiomType\{SetCategory\}&nbsp;is&nbsp;the&nbsp;basic&nbsp;category<br />
++&nbsp;for&nbsp;describing&nbsp;a&nbsp;collection&nbsp;of&nbsp;elements&nbsp;with<br />
++&nbsp;\bs{}axiomOp\{=\}&nbsp;(equality)&nbsp;and&nbsp;a&nbsp;\bs{}axiomFun\{coerce\}<br />
++&nbsp;to&nbsp;\bs{}axiomType\{OutputForm\}.<br />
<br />
SetCategory():&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;Join(Type,&nbsp;CoercibleTo&nbsp;OutputForm)&nbsp;with<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"=":&nbsp;($,&nbsp;$)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Boolean<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;++&nbsp;\bs{}axiom\{x&nbsp;=&nbsp;y\}&nbsp;tests&nbsp;if&nbsp;\bs{}axiom\{x\}&nbsp;and<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;++&nbsp;\bs{}axiom\{y\}&nbsp;are&nbsp;equal.<br />
</div>



<p>Documentary comments are an important part of constructor definitions.
Documentation is given both for the category itself and for
each export.
A description for the category precedes the code.
Each line of the description begins in column one with <span class="teletype">++</span>.
The description starts with the word <span class="teletype">Description:</span>.<span class="footnote">Other
information such as the author's name, date of creation, and so on,
can go in this
area as well but are currently ignored by Axiom.</span>
All lines of the description following the initial line are
indented by the same amount.
</p>



<p>Surround the name of any constructor (with or without parameters) with an
{\bf }.
Similarly, surround an
operator name with {\tt },
an Axiom operation with {\bf }, and a
variable or Axiom expression with
$$.
Library documentation is given in a <span class="texlogo">TeX</span>-like language so that
it can be used both for hard-copy and for Browse.
These different wrappings cause operations and types to have
mouse-active buttons in Browse.
For hard-copy output, wrapped expressions appear in a different font.
The above documentation appears in hard-copy as:
</p>






<div class="quotation">



<p><span class="teletype">SetCategory</span> is the basic category
for describing a collection of elements with <span class="teletype">=</span>
(equality) and a <span style="font-weight: bold;"> coerce</span> to <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span>.
</p>




</div>



<p>and
</p>




<div class="quotation">



<p>  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>y</mi></mrow></mstyle></math> tests if  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>x</mi></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>y</mi></mstyle></math> are equal.
</p>




</div>




<p>For our purposes in this chapter, we omit the documentation from further
category descriptions.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-12.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.2 Exports</a><a href="section-12.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.4 Hierarchies</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>