<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section11.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-11.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 11.0 Packages</a><a href="section-11.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 11.2 Syntax</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-11.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">11.1  Names, Abbreviations, and File Structure</h2>


<a name="ugPackagesNames" class="label"/>



<p>Each package has a name and an abbreviation.
For a package of the complex draw functions from Chapter 
<a href="section-10.0.xhtml#ugIntProg" class="ref" >ugIntProg</a> ,
we choose the name <span class="teletype">DrawComplex</span>
and
<span class="index">abbreviation:constructor</span><a name="chapter-11-3"/>
abbreviation <span class="teletype">DRAWCX</span>.<span class="footnote">An abbreviation can be any string
of
<span class="index">constructor:abbreviation</span><a name="chapter-11-4"/>
between two and seven capital letters and digits, beginning with a letter.
See <a href="section-2.2.xhtml#ugTypesWritingAbbr" class="ref" >ugTypesWritingAbbr</a>  
for more information.</span>
To be sure that you have not chosen a name or abbreviation already used by
the system, issue the system command <span class="teletype">)show</span> for both the name and
the abbreviation.
<span class="index">show</span><a name="chapter-11-5"/>
</p>


<p>Once you have named the package and its abbreviation, you can choose any new
filename you like with extension ``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> .spad</span>'' to hold the
definition of your package.
We choose the name <span style="font-weight: bold;"> drawpak.spad</span>.
If your application involves more than one package, you
can put them all in the same file.
Axiom assumes no relationship between the name of a library file, and
the name or abbreviation of a package.
</p>


<p>Near the top of the ``<span style="font-weight: bold;"> .spad</span>'' file, list all the
abbreviations for the packages
using <span class="teletype">)abbrev</span>, each command beginning in column one.
Macros giving names to Axiom expressions can also be placed near the
top of the file.
The macros are only usable from their point of definition until the
end of the file.
</p>


<p>Consider the definition of
<span class="teletype">DrawComplex</span> in 
Figure <a href="fig-pak-cdraw" class="ref" >fig-pak-cdraw</a> .
After the macro
<span class="index">macro</span><a name="chapter-11-6"/>
definition
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
S&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;==&gt;&nbsp;Segment&nbsp;DoubleFloat<br />
</div>


<p>the name
<span class="teletype">S</span> can be used in the file as a
shorthand for <span class="teletype">Segment DoubleFloat</span>.<span class="footnote">The interpreter also allows
<span class="teletype">macro</span> for macro definitions.</span>
The abbreviation command for the package
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)abbrev&nbsp;package&nbsp;DRAWCX&nbsp;DrawComplex<br />
</div>


<p>is given after the macros (although it could precede them).
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-11.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 11.0 Packages</a><a href="section-11.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 11.2 Syntax</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>