<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section12.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-12.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.0 Categories</a><a href="section-12.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.2 Exports</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-12.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">12.1  Definitions</h2>


<a name="ugCategoriesDefs" class="label"/>


<p>A category is defined by a function with exactly the same format as
<span class="index">category:definition</span><a name="chapter-12-3"/>
any other function in Axiom.
</p>


<p>The definition of a category has the syntax:
</p>



<div class="center" style="text-align: center;">


<p><span class="italic">CategoryForm</span> : <span class="teletype">Category&nbsp; ==&nbsp; </span> <span class="italic">Extensions</span> <span class="teletype">[ with</span> <span class="italic">Exports</span> <span class="teletype">]</span>
</p>



</div>



<p>The brackets <span class="teletype">[ ]</span> here indicate optionality.
</p>



<p>The first example of a category definition is
<span class="teletype">SetCategory</span>,
the most basic of the algebraic categories in Axiom.
<span class="index">SetCategory</span><a name="chapter-12-4"/>
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
SetCategory():&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Join(Type,CoercibleTo&nbsp;OutputForm)&nbsp;with<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;"="&nbsp;:&nbsp;($,&nbsp;$)&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Boolean<br />
</div>



<p>The definition starts off with the name of the
category (<span class="teletype">SetCategory</span>); this is
always in column one in the source file.
<!-- maybe talk about naming conventions for source files? .spad or .ax? -->
All parts of a category definition are then indented with respect to this
<span class="index">indentation</span><a name="chapter-12-5"/>
first line.
</p>


<p>In Chapter <a href="section-2.0.xhtml#ugTypes" class="ref" >ugTypes</a> , 
we talked about <span class="teletype">Ring</span> as denoting the
class of all domains that are rings, in short, the class of all
rings.
While this is the usual naming convention in Axiom, it is also
common to use the word ``Category'' at the end of a category name for clarity.
The interpretation of the name <span class="teletype">SetCategory</span> is, then, ``the
category of all domains that are (mathematical) sets.''
</p>


<p>The name <span class="teletype">SetCategory</span> is followed in the definition by its
formal parameters enclosed in parentheses <span class="teletype">()</span>.
Here there are no parameters.
As required, the type of the result of this category function is the
distinguished name <span class="slant">Category</span>.
</p>


<p>Then comes the <span class="teletype">==</span>.
As usual, what appears to the right of the <span class="teletype">==</span> is a
definition, here, a category definition.
A category definition always has two parts separated by the reserved word
<span class="index">with</span><a name="chapter-12-6"/>
 <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>with</mi></mstyle></math>.
<span class="footnote">Debugging hint: it is very easy to forget
the  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>with</mi></mstyle></math>!</span>
</p>


<p>The first part tells what categories the category extends.
Here, the category extends two categories: <span class="teletype">Type</span>, the
category of all domains, and
<span class="teletype">CoercibleTo(OutputForm)</span>.
<span class="footnote"><span class="teletype">CoercibleTo(OutputForm)</span>
can also be written (and is written in the definition above) without
parentheses.</span>
The operation  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>Join</mi></mstyle></math> is a system-defined operation that
<span class="index">Join</span><a name="chapter-12-7"/>
forms a single category from two or more other categories.
</p>


<p>Every category other than <span class="teletype">Type</span> is an extension of some other
category.
If, for example, <span class="teletype">SetCategory</span> extended only the category
<span class="teletype">Type</span>, the definition here would read ``<span class="teletype">Type with
...</span>''.
In fact, the <span class="teletype">Type</span> is optional in this line; ``<span class="teletype">with
...</span>'' suffices.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-12.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.0 Categories</a><a href="section-12.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.2 Exports</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>