<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.14</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.13.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.13 )history</a><a href="section-16.15.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.15 )lisp</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.14">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.14  )library</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugSysCmdlibrary</span><a name="chapter-16-100"/>
</p>


<p><span class="index">library</span><a name="chapter-16-101"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> interpreter
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
<span class="teletype">)library <span class="italic">libName1  [libName2 ...]</span></span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)library )dir <span class="italic">dirName</span></span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)library )only <span class="italic">objName1  [objlib2 ...]</span></span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)library )noexpose</span>
</div>
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>This command replaces the <span class="teletype">)load</span> system command that
was available in Axiom releases before version 2.0.
The <span class="teletype">)library</span> command makes available to Axiom the compiled
objects in the libraries listed.
</p>


<p>For example, if you <span class="teletype">)compile dopler.as</span> in your home
directory, issue <span class="teletype">)library dopler</span> to have Axiom look
at the library, determine the category and domain constructors present,
update the internal database with various properties of the
constructors, and arrange for the constructors to be
automatically loaded when needed.
If the <span class="teletype">)noexpose</span> option has not been given, the
constructors will be exposed (that is, available) in the current
frame.
</p>


<p>If you compiled a file with the old system compiler, you will
have an <span class="italic">NRLIB</span> present, for example, <span class="italic">DOPLER.NRLIB,</span>
where <span class="teletype">DOPLER</span> is a constructor abbreviation.
The command <span class="teletype">)library DOPLER</span> will then do the analysis and
database updates as above.
</p>


<p>To tell the system about all libraries in a directory, use
<span class="teletype">)library )dir dirName</span> where <span class="teletype">dirName</span> is an explicit
directory.
You may specify ``.'' as the directory, which means the current
directory from which you started the system or the one you set
via the <span class="teletype">)cd</span> command. The directory name is required.
</p>


<p>You may only want to tell the system about particular
constructors within a library. In this case, use the <span class="teletype">)only</span>
option. The command <span class="teletype">)library dopler )only Test1</span> will only
cause the <span class="slant">Test1</span> constructor to be analyzed, autoloaded,
etc..
</p>


<p>Finally, each constructor in a library  are usually automatically exposed when the
<span class="teletype">)library</span> command is used. Use the <span class="teletype">)noexpose</span>
option if you not want them exposed. At a later time you can use
<span class="teletype">)set expose add constructor</span> to expose any hidden
constructors.
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Note for Axiom beta testers:</span> At various times this
command was called <span class="teletype">)local</span> and <span class="teletype">)with</span> before the name
<span class="teletype">)library</span> became the official name.
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)cd</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdcd</span><a name="chapter-16-102"/>,
<span class="teletype">)compile</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdcompile</span><a name="chapter-16-103"/>,
<span class="teletype">)frame</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdframe</span><a name="chapter-16-104"/>, and
<span class="teletype">)set</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdset</span><a name="chapter-16-105"/>.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.13.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.13 )history</a><a href="section-16.15.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.15 )lisp</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>