<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section18.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-17.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 17.1  Axiom Categories</a><a href="section-19.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 19.1  Axiom Packages</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-18.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">18.1  Axiom Domains</h2>
<a name="ugAppDomains" class="label"/>

<p>This is a listing of all domains in the Axiom library at the
time this book was produced.
Use the Browse facility (described in Chapter 
<a href="section-14.0.xhtml#ugBrowse" class="ref" >ugBrowse</a> )
to get more information about these constructors.
</p>


<p>This sample entry will help you read the following table:
</p>


<p>DomainName{DomainAbbreviation}:{ <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>Category</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>
... <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>Category</mi><mi>N</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>}<span class="italic">with </span>
{ <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>op</mi><mn>1</mn></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>... <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>op</mi><mi>M</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math>}
</p>


<p>where
</p>


<p><table class="begintabular">
<tr><td>DomainName </td><td> is the full domain name, e.g., <span class="italic">Integer</span>. </td></tr>
<tr><td>DomainAbbreviation </td><td> is the domain abbreviation, e.g., <span class="italic">INT</span>. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>Category</mi><mi>i</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math> </td><td> is a category to which the domain belongs. </td></tr>
<tr><td> <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msub><mi>op</mi><mi>j</mi></msub></mrow></mstyle></math> </td><td> is an operation exported by the domain. </td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ALGSC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AlgebraGivenByStructuralConstants</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FramedNonAssociativeAlgebra LeftModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span>
   <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> JacobiIdentity? JordanAlgebra? alternative? antiAssociative? antiCommutative? antiCommutator apply
   associative? associator associatorDependence basis coerce commutative? commutator conditionsForIdempotents convert
   coordinates elt flexible? jordanAdmissible? leftAlternative? leftCharacteristicPolynomial leftDiscriminant
   leftMinimalPolynomial leftNorm leftPower leftRankPolynomial leftRecip leftRegularRepresentation leftTrace
   leftTraceMatrix leftUnit leftUnits lieAdmissible? lieAlgebra? noncommutativeJordanAlgebra? plenaryPower
   powerAssociative? rank recip represents rightAlternative? rightCharacteristicPolynomial rightDiscriminant
   rightMinimalPolynomial rightNorm rightPower rightRankPolynomial rightRecip rightRegularRepresentation rightTrace
   rightTraceMatrix rightUnit rightUnits someBasis structuralConstants unit zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ALGFF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AlgebraicFunctionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FunctionFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   absolutelyIrreducible? associates? basis branchPoint? branchPointAtInfinity? characteristic characteristicPolynomial
   charthRoot coerce complementaryBasis convert coordinates definingPolynomial derivationCoordinates differentiate
   discriminant divide elt euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor gcd generator genus integral?
   integralAtInfinity? integralBasis integralBasisAtInfinity integralCoordinates integralDerivationMatrix integralMatrix
   integralMatrixAtInfinity integralRepresents inv inverseIntegralMatrix inverseIntegralMatrixAtInfinity knownInfBasis lcm
   lift minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nonSingularModel norm normalizeAtInfinity numberOfComponents one? prime?
   primitivePart principalIdeal quo ramified? ramifiedAtInfinity? rank rationalPoint? rationalPoints recip reduce
   reduceBasisAtInfinity reducedSystem regularRepresentation rem represents retract retractIfCan singular?
   singularAtInfinity? sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart trace traceMatrix unit? unitCanonical unitNormal yCoordinates
   zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">AN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AlgebraicNumber</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AlgebraicallyClosedField CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo DifferentialRing
   ExpressionSpace LinearlyExplicitRingOver RealConstant RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">   &lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? belong? box characteristic coerce convert definingPolynomial denom differentiate distribute
   divide elt euclideanSize eval expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor freeOf? gcd height inv is? kernel
   kernels lcm mainKernel map max min minPoly multiEuclidean nthRoot numer one? operator operators paren prime?
   principalIdeal quo recip reduce reducedSystem rem retract retractIfCan rootOf rootsOf sizeLess? sqrt squareFree
   squareFreePart subst tower unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero? zeroOf zerosOf</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ANON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AnonymousFunction</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ANTISYM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AntiSymm</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LeftAlgebra RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> characteristic
   coefficient coerce degree exp generator homogeneous? leadingBasisTerm leadingCoefficient map one? recip reductum
   retract retractIfCan retractable? zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ANY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Any</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> any coerce domain domainOf obj objectOf showTypeInOutput</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ASTACK</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ArrayStack</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">StackAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? arrayStack bag coerce copy count depth empty empty?
   eq? every? extract! insert! inspect less? map map! member? members more? parts pop! push! size? top</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">JORDAN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AssociatedJordanAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo FiniteRankNonAssociativeAlgebra FramedNonAssociativeAlgebra
   NonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> JacobiIdentity? JordanAlgebra? alternative?
   antiAssociative? antiCommutative? antiCommutator apply associative? associator associatorDependence basis coerce
   commutative? commutator conditionsForIdempotents convert coordinates elt flexible? jordanAdmissible? leftAlternative?
   leftCharacteristicPolynomial leftDiscriminant leftMinimalPolynomial leftNorm leftPower leftRankPolynomial leftRecip
   leftRegularRepresentation leftTrace leftTraceMatrix leftUnit leftUnits lieAdmissible? lieAlgebra?
   noncommutativeJordanAlgebra? plenaryPower powerAssociative? rank recip represents rightAlternative?
   rightCharacteristicPolynomial rightDiscriminant rightMinimalPolynomial rightNorm rightPower rightRankPolynomial
   rightRecip rightRegularRepresentation rightTrace rightTraceMatrix rightUnit rightUnits someBasis structuralConstants
   unit zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LIE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AssociatedLieAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo FiniteRankNonAssociativeAlgebra FramedNonAssociativeAlgebra
   NonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> JacobiIdentity? JordanAlgebra? alternative?
   antiAssociative? antiCommutative? antiCommutator apply associative? associator associatorDependence basis coerce
   commutative? commutator conditionsForIdempotents convert coordinates elt flexible? jordanAdmissible? leftAlternative?
   leftCharacteristicPolynomial leftDiscriminant leftMinimalPolynomial leftNorm leftPower leftRankPolynomial leftRecip
   leftRegularRepresentation leftTrace leftTraceMatrix leftUnit leftUnits lieAdmissible? lieAlgebra?
   noncommutativeJordanAlgebra? plenaryPower powerAssociative? rank recip represents rightAlternative?
   rightCharacteristicPolynomial rightDiscriminant rightMinimalPolynomial rightNorm rightPower rightRankPolynomial
   rightRecip rightRegularRepresentation rightTrace rightTraceMatrix rightUnit rightUnits someBasis structuralConstants
   unit zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ALIST</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">AssociationList</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AssociationListAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? assoc bag child? children coerce
   concat concat! construct copy copyInto! count cycleEntry cycleLength cycleSplit! cycleTail cyclic? delete delete!
   dictionary distance elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? explicitlyFinite? extract! fill! find first index?
   indices insert insert! inspect key? keys last leaf? less? list map map! maxIndex member? members merge merge! minIndex
   more? new node? nodes parts position possiblyInfinite? qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates
   removeDuplicates! rest reverse reverse! search second select select! setchildren! setelt setfirst! setlast! setrest!
   setvalue! size? sort sort! sorted? split! swap! table tail third value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BBTREE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BalancedBinaryTree</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BinaryTreeCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? balancedBinaryTree children coerce copy
   count cyclic? elt empty empty? eq? every? leaf? leaves left less? map map! mapDown! mapUp! member? members more? node
   node? nodes parts right setchildren! setelt setleaves! setleft! setright! setvalue! size? value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BPADIC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BalancedPAdicInteger</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PAdicIntegerCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> approximate
   associates? characteristic coerce complete digits divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extend
   extendedEuclidean gcd lcm moduloP modulus multiEuclidean one? order principalIdeal quo quotientByP recip rem sizeLess?
   sqrt unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BPADICRT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BalancedPAdicRational</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   approximate associates? characteristic coerce continuedFraction denom denominator differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor fractionPart gcd inv lcm map multiEuclidean numer numerator one?
   prime? principalIdeal quo recip reducedSystem rem removeZeroes retract retractIfCan sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart
   unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BOP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BasicOperator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> arity assert coerce comparison copy deleteProperty! display
   equality has? input is? max min name nary? nullary? operator properties property setProperties setProperty unary?
   weight</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BINARY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BinaryExpansion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   abs associates? binary ceiling characteristic coerce convert denom denominator differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor floor fractionPart gcd init inv lcm map max min multiEuclidean
   negative? nextItem numer numerator one? patternMatch positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random recip reducedSystem rem
   retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BSTREE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BinarySearchTree</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BinaryTreeCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? binarySearchTree children coerce copy
   count cyclic? elt empty empty? eq? every? insert! insertRoot! leaf? leaves left less? map map! member? members more?
   node node? nodes parts right setchildren! setelt setleft! setright! setvalue! size? split value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p>   count cyclic? elt empty empty? eq? every? insert! leaf? leaves left less? map map! member? members more? node node?
   nodes parts right setchildren! setelt setleft! setright! setvalue! size? value}
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BTREE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">BinaryTree</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BinaryTreeCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? binaryTree children coerce copy count cyclic? elt
   empty empty? eq? every? leaf? leaves left less? map map! member? members more? node node? nodes parts right
   setchildren! setelt setleft! setright! setvalue! size? value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BITS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Bits</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BitAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> <span class="teletype">\^{}</span> and any? bits coerce concat construct convert
   copy copyInto! count delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index? indices insert less? map
   map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? nand new nor not or parts position qelt qsetelt! reduce
   remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap! xor</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">BOOLEAN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Boolean</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo Finite OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> <span class="teletype">\^{}</span> and coerce convert false implies
   index lookup max min nand nor not or random size true xor</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CARD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CardinalNumber</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CancellationAbelianMonoid Monoid OrderedSet RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span>
   <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Aleph coerce countable? finite? generalizedContinuumHypothesisAssumed
   generalizedContinuumHypothesisAssumed? max min one? recip retract retractIfCan zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CARTEN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CartesianTensor</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">GradedAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce contract degree elt
   kroneckerDelta leviCivitaSymbol product rank ravel reindex retract retractIfCan transpose unravel</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CCLASS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CharacterClass</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo FiniteSetAggregate SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> alphabetic
   alphanumeric any? bag brace cardinality charClass coerce complement construct convert copy count dictionary difference
   digit empty empty? eq? every? extract! find hexDigit index insert! inspect intersect less? lookup lowerCase map map!
   max member? members min more? parts random reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates select select! size size? subset?
   symmetricDifference union universe upperCase</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CHAR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Character</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedFinite</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> alphabetic? alphanumeric? char coerce digit? escape hexDigit?
   index lookup lowerCase lowerCase? max min ord quote random size space upperCase upperCase?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CLIF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">CliffordAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra Ring VectorSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   characteristic coefficient coerce dimension e monomial one? recip zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COLOR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Color</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianSemiGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> blue coerce color green hue numberOfHues red yellow</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COMM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Commutator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce mkcomm</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COMPLEX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Complex</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ComplexCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs acos
   acosh acot acoth acsc acsch argument asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh basis characteristic
   characteristicPolynomial charthRoot coerce complex conditionP conjugate convert coordinates cos cosh cot coth
   createPrimitiveElement csc csch definingPolynomial derivationCoordinates differentiate discreteLog discriminant divide
   elt euclideanSize eval exp expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorPolynomial
   factorSquareFreePolynomial factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd gcdPolynomial generator imag imaginary index init inv lcm lift
   log lookup map max min minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm nthRoot one? order pi polarCoordinates prime?
   primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random rank rational rational? rationalIfCan real recip
   reduce reducedSystem regularRepresentation rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan sec sech sin sinh
   size sizeLess? solveLinearPolynomialEquation sqrt squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial
   tableForDiscreteLogarithm tan tanh trace traceMatrix unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">CONTFRAC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ContinuedFraction</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra Field</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> approximants
   associates? characteristic coerce complete continuedFraction convergents denominators divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extend extendedEuclidean factor gcd inv lcm multiEuclidean numerators one? partialDenominators
   partialNumerators partialQuotients prime? principalIdeal quo recip reducedContinuedFraction reducedForm rem sizeLess?
   squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DBASE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Database</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce display elt fullDisplay</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DFLOAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DoubleFloat</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo DifferentialRing FloatingPointSystem TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span>
   <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch asec asech asin asinh
   associates? atan atanh base bits ceiling characteristic coerce convert cos cosh cot coth csc csch decreasePrecision
   differentiate digits divide euclideanSize exp exp1 exponent expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor float
   floor fractionPart gcd hash increasePrecision inv lcm log log10 log2 mantissa max min multiEuclidean negative? norm
   nthRoot one? order patternMatch pi positive? precision prime? principalIdeal quo rationalApproximation recip rem
   retract retractIfCan round sec sech sign sin sinh sizeLess? sqrt squareFree squareFreePart tan tanh truncate unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DLIST</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DataList</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ListAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? children coerce concat concat! construct convert
   copy copyInto! count cycleEntry cycleLength cycleSplit! cycleTail cyclic? datalist delete delete! elt empty empty?
   entries entry? eq? every? explicitlyFinite? fill! find first index? indices insert insert! last leaf? leaves less? list
   map map! max maxIndex member? members merge merge! min minIndex more? new node? nodes parts position possiblyInfinite?
   qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! rest reverse reverse! second select select!
   setchildren! setelt setfirst! setlast! setrest! setvalue! size? sort sort! sorted? split! swap! tail third value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DECIMAL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DecimalExpansion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   D abs associates? ceiling characteristic coerce convert decimal denom denominator differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor floor fractionPart gcd init inv lcm map max min multiEuclidean
   negative? nextItem numer numerator one? patternMatch positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random recip reducedSystem rem
   retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DHMATRIX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DenavitHartenbergMatrix</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   antisymmetric? any? coerce column copy count determinant diagonal? diagonalMatrix elt empty empty? eq? every? exquo
   fill! horizConcat identity inverse less? listOfLists map map! matrix maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members
   minColIndex minRowIndex minordet more? ncols new nrows nullSpace nullity parts qelt qsetelt! rank rotatex rotatey
   rotatez row rowEchelon scalarMatrix scale setColumn! setRow! setelt setsubMatrix! size? square? squareTop subMatrix
   swapColumns! swapRows! symmetric? translate transpose vertConcat zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DEQUEUE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Dequeue</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DequeueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? back bag bottom! coerce copy count depth dequeue
   dequeue! empty empty? enqueue! eq? every? extract! extractBottom! extractTop! front height insert! insertBottom!
   insertTop! inspect length less? map map! member? members more? parts pop! push! reverse! rotate! size? top top!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DERHAM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DeRhamComplex</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LeftAlgebra RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> characteristic
   coefficient coerce degree exteriorDifferential generator homogeneous? leadingBasisTerm leadingCoefficient map one?
   recip reductum retract retractIfCan retractable? totalDifferential zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DSMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DifferentialSparseMultivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialPolynomialCategory RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">   **</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce
   conditionP content convert degree differentialVariables differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial
   factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground ground? initial isExpt isPlus isTimes isobaric? lcm leader
   leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable makeVariable map mapExponents max min minimumDegree monicDivide
   monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? order patternMatch prime? primitiveMonomials
   primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum resultant retract retractIfCan separant solveLinearPolynomialEquation
   squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables weight
   weights zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DPMM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DirectProductMatrixModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DirectProductCategory LeftModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">   -</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs any? characteristic coerce copy count differentiate dimension directProduct dot elt
   empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! first index index? indices less? lookup map map! max maxIndex member?
   members min minIndex more? negative? one? parts positive? qelt qsetelt! random recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan
   setelt sign size size? sup swap! unitVector zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DPMO</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DirectProductModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DirectProductCategory LeftModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs any? characteristic coerce copy count differentiate dimension directProduct dot elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! first index index? indices less? lookup map map! max maxIndex member? members
   min minIndex more? negative? one? parts positive? qelt qsetelt! random recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan setelt
   sign size size? sup swap! unitVector zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DIRPROD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DirectProduct</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs any? characteristic coerce copy count differentiate dimension directProduct dot elt empty empty? entries
   entry? eq? every? fill! first index index? indices less? lookup map map! max maxIndex member? members min minIndex
   more? negative? one? parts positive? qelt qsetelt! random recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan setelt sign size
   size? sup swap! unitVector zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DistributedMultivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">   &lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP const content convert
   degree differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial
   ground ground? isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable map mapExponents max min
   minimumDegree monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? prime? primitiveMonomials
   primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum reorder resultant retract retractIfCan solveLinearPolynomialEquation
   squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">DROPT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">DrawOption</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> adaptive clip coerce colorFunction coordinate coordinates curveColor
   option option? pointColor range ranges space style title toScale tubePoints tubeRadius unit var1Steps var2Steps</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EFULS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ElementaryFunctionsUnivariateLaurentSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PartialTranscendentalFunctions</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> acos acosIfCan
   acosh acoshIfCan acot acotIfCan acoth acothIfCan acsc acscIfCan acsch acschIfCan asec asecIfCan asech asechIfCan asin
   asinIfCan asinh asinhIfCan atan atanIfCan atanh atanhIfCan cos cosIfCan cosh coshIfCan cot cotIfCan coth cothIfCan csc
   cscIfCan csch cschIfCan exp expIfCan log logIfCan nthRootIfCan sec secIfCan sech sechIfCan sin sinIfCan sinh sinhIfCan
   tan tanIfCan tanh tanhIfCan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EFUPXS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ElementaryFunctionsUnivariatePuiseuxSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PartialTranscendentalFunctions</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">**</span> acos acosIfCan
   acosh acoshIfCan acot acotIfCan acoth acothIfCan acsc acscIfCan acsch acschIfCan asec asecIfCan asech asechIfCan asin
   asinIfCan asinh asinhIfCan atan atanIfCan atanh atanhIfCan cos cosIfCan cosh coshIfCan cot cotIfCan coth cothIfCan csc
   cscIfCan csch cschIfCan exp expIfCan log logIfCan nthRootIfCan sec secIfCan sech sechIfCan sin sinIfCan sinh sinhIfCan
   tan tanIfCan tanh tanhIfCan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EQTBL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">EqTable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? map map!
   maxIndex member? members minIndex more? parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search select
   select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EQ</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Equation</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo InnerEvalable Object SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce
   equation eval lhs map rhs</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EMR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">EuclideanModularRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">EuclideanDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> associates?
   characteristic coerce divide euclideanSize exQuo expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean gcd inv lcm modulus
   multiEuclidean one? principalIdeal quo recip reduce rem sizeLess? unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EXIT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Exit</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EXPR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Expression</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AlgebraicallyClosedFunctionSpace CombinatorialOpsCategory FunctionSpace
   LiouvillianFunctionCategory RetractableTo SpecialFunctionCategory TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Beta Ci D Ei Gamma Si abs acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch airyAi airyBi
   applyQuote asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh belong? besselI besselJ besselK besselY binomial box
   characteristic charthRoot coerce commutator conjugate convert cos cosh cot coth csc csch definingPolynomial denom
   denominator differentiate digamma dilog distribute divide elt erf euclideanSize eval exp expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean factor factorial factorials freeOf? gcd ground ground? height integral inv is? isExpt isMult isPlus
   isPower isTimes kernel kernels lcm li log mainKernel map max min minPoly multiEuclidean nthRoot numer numerator one?
   operator operators paren patternMatch permutation pi polygamma prime? principalIdeal product quo recip reduce
   reducedSystem rem retract retractIfCan rootOf rootsOf sec sech sin sinh sizeLess? sqrt squareFree squareFreePart subst
   summation tan tanh tower unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables zero? zeroOf zerosOf</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">EAB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ExtAlgBasis</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Nul coerce degree exponents max min</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Factored</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra DifferentialExtension Eltable Evalable FullyEvalableOver FullyRetractableTo GcdDomain
   InnerEvalable IntegralDomain RealConstant UniqueFactorizationDomain</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   associates? characteristic coerce convert differentiate elt eval expand exponent exquo factor factorList factors
   flagFactor gcd irreducibleFactor lcm makeFR map nilFactor nthExponent nthFactor nthFlag numberOfFactors one? prime?
   primeFactor rational rational? rationalIfCan recip retract retractIfCan sqfrFactor squareFree squareFreePart unit unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal unitNormalize zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FNAME</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FileName</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FileNameCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce directory exists? extension filename name new readable?
   writable?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FILE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">File</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FileCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> close! coerce iomode name open read! readIfCan! reopen! write!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FDIV</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteDivisor</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> algsplit coerce divisor finiteBasis
   generator ideal lSpaceBasis mkBasicDiv principal? reduce zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFCGP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldCyclicGroupExtensionByPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">   +</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP
   coordinates createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide
   euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator
   getZechTable inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal?
   normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem
   representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm
   trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFCGX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldCyclicGroupExtension</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates
   createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator getZechTable
   inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one?
   order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType
   represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace
   transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFCG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldCyclicGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates createNormalElement
   createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator getZechTable inGroundField? index init
   inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius
   primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan size
   sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldExtensionByPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates
   createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator inGroundField?
   index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime?
   primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract
   retractIfCan size sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent?
   unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldExtension</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates createNormalElement
   createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator inGroundField? index init inv lcm
   lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive?
   primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess?
   squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFNBP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldNormalBasisExtensionByPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">   +</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP
   coordinates createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide
   euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator
   getMultiplicationMatrix getMultiplicationTable inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial
   multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement
   principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess?
   sizeMultiplication squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFNBX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldNormalBasisExtension</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates
   createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator
   getMultiplicationMatrix getMultiplicationTable inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial
   multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement
   principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess?
   sizeMultiplication squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FFNB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteFieldNormalBasis</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates createNormalElement
   createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator getMultiplicationMatrix
   getMultiplicationTable inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal?
   normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem
   representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess? sizeMultiplication squareFree squareFreePart
   tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FiniteField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius
   algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates createNormalElement
   createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator inGroundField? index init inv lcm
   lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive?
   primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess?
   squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FARRAY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FlexibleArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ExtensibleLinearAggregate OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any?
   coerce concat concat! construct convert copy copyInto! count delete delete! elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every?
   fill! find first flexibleArray index? indices insert insert! less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge merge!
   min minIndex more? new parts physicalLength physicalLength! position qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove!
   removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! reverse reverse! select select! setelt shrinkable size? sort sort! sorted? swap!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FLOAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Float</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo ConvertibleTo DifferentialRing FloatingPointSystem TranscendentalFunctionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0
   1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch asec asech asin asinh
   associates? atan atanh base bits ceiling characteristic coerce convert cos cosh cot coth csc csch decreasePrecision
   differentiate digits divide euclideanSize exp exp1 exponent expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor float
   floor fractionPart gcd increasePrecision inv lcm log log10 log2 mantissa max min multiEuclidean negative? norm
   normalize nthRoot one? order outputFixed outputFloating outputGeneral outputSpacing patternMatch pi positive? precision
   prime? principalIdeal quo rationalApproximation recip relerror rem retract retractIfCan round sec sech shift sign sin
   sinh sizeLess? sqrt squareFree squareFreePart tan tanh truncate unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FRIDEAL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FractionalIdeal</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Group</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> basis coerce commutator conjugate denom
   ideal inv minimize norm numer one? randomLC recip</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FRAC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Fraction</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs
   associates? ceiling characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP convert denom denominator differentiate divide elt
   euclideanSize eval expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial floor
   fractionPart gcd gcdPolynomial init inv lcm map max min multiEuclidean negative? nextItem numer numerator one?
   patternMatch positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random recip reducedSystem rem retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess?
   solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart
   zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FRMOD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FramedModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Monoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> basis coerce module norm one? recip</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FAGROUP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeAbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup FreeAbelianMonoidCategory Module OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coefficient coerce highCommonTerms mapCoef mapGen max min nthCoef nthFactor retract retractIfCan size
   terms zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FAMONOID</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FreeAbelianMonoidCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coefficient coerce
   highCommonTerms mapCoef mapGen nthCoef nthFactor retract retractIfCan size terms zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FGROUP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Group RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce commutator conjugate factors
   inv mapExpon mapGen nthExpon nthFactor one? recip retract retractIfCan size</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BiModule IndexedDirectProductCategory Module</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce
   leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map monomial reductum zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FMONOID</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Monoid OrderedSet RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce divide factors
   hclf hcrf lquo mapExpon mapGen max min nthExpon nthFactor one? overlap recip retract retractIfCan rquo size</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FNLA</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FreeNilpotentLie</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">NonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> antiCommutator
   associator coerce commutator deepExpand dimension generator leftPower rightPower shallowExpand zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FUNCTION</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">FunctionCalled</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce name</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GDMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GeneralDistributedMultivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   /</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP const content
   convert degree differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd
   gcdPolynomial ground ground? isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable map mapExponents
   max min minimumDegree monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? prime?
   primitiveMonomials primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum reorder resultant retract retractIfCan
   solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal
   univariate variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GSTBL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GeneralSparseTable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary
   elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? map
   map! maxIndex member? members minIndex more? parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search select
   select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GCNAALG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GenericNonAssociativeAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FramedNonAssociativeAlgebra LeftModule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">   -</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> JacobiIdentity? JordanAlgebra? alternative? antiAssociative? antiCommutative? antiCommutator apply
   associative? associator associatorDependence basis coerce commutative? commutator conditionsForIdempotents convert
   coordinates elt flexible? generic genericLeftDiscriminant genericLeftMinimalPolynomial genericLeftNorm genericLeftTrace
   genericLeftTraceForm genericRightDiscriminant genericRightMinimalPolynomial genericRightNorm genericRightTrace
   genericRightTraceForm jordanAdmissible? leftAlternative? leftCharacteristicPolynomial leftDiscriminant
   leftMinimalPolynomial leftNorm leftPower leftRankPolynomial leftRecip leftRegularRepresentation leftTrace
   leftTraceMatrix leftUnit leftUnits lieAdmissible? lieAlgebra? noncommutativeJordanAlgebra? plenaryPower
   powerAssociative? rank recip represents rightAlternative? rightCharacteristicPolynomial rightDiscriminant
   rightMinimalPolynomial rightNorm rightPower rightRankPolynomial rightRecip rightRegularRepresentation rightTrace
   rightTraceMatrix rightUnit rightUnits someBasis structuralConstants unit zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">GRIMAGE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">GraphImage</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> appendPoint coerce component graphImage key makeGraphImage point
   pointLists putColorInfo ranges units</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">HASHTBL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">HashTable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? map map!
   maxIndex member? members minIndex more? parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search select
   select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">HEAP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Heap</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PriorityQueueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce copy count empty empty? eq? every?
   extract! heap insert! inspect less? map map! max member? members merge merge! more? parts size?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">HEXADEC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">HexadecimalExpansion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs associates? ceiling characteristic coerce convert denom denominator differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor floor fractionPart gcd hex init inv lcm map max min multiEuclidean
   negative? nextItem numer numerator one? patternMatch positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random recip reducedSystem rem
   retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ICARD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexCard</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce display elt fullDisplay max min</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IBITS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedBits</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BitAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> And Not Or <span class="teletype">\^{}</span> and any? coerce concat
   construct convert copy copyInto! count delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index?
   indices insert less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? nand new nor not or parts position
   qelt qsetelt! reduce remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap! xor</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDPAG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedDirectProductAbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup IndexedDirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map monomial reductum zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDPAM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedDirectProductAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianMonoid IndexedDirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> coerce leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map monomial reductum zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDPO</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedDirectProductObject</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IndexedDirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce leadingCoefficient
   leadingSupport map monomial reductum</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDPOAMS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedDirectProductOrderedAbelianMonoidSup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IndexedDirectProductCategory OrderedAbelianMonoidSup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0
   <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map max min monomial reductum sup
   zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDPOAM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedDirectProductOrderedAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IndexedDirectProductCategory OrderedAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map max min monomial reductum zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">INDE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedExponents</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IndexedDirectProductCategory OrderedAbelianMonoidSup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   &lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce leadingCoefficient leadingSupport map max min monomial reductum sup zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IFARRAY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedFlexibleArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ExtensibleLinearAggregate OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> any? coerce concat concat! construct convert copy copyInto! count delete delete! elt empty empty? entries entry? eq?
   every? fill! find first flexibleArray index? indices insert insert! less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge
   merge! min minIndex more? new parts physicalLength physicalLength! position qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove!
   removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! reverse reverse! select select! setelt shrinkable size? sort sort! sorted? swap!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ILIST</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedList</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ListAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? child? children coerce concat concat!
   construct convert copy copyInto! count cycleEntry cycleLength cycleSplit! cycleTail cyclic? delete delete! distance elt
   empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? explicitlyFinite? fill! find first index? indices insert insert! last leaf?
   less? list map map! max maxIndex member? members merge merge! min minIndex more? new node? nodes parts position
   possiblyInfinite? qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! rest reverse reverse! second
   select select! setchildren! setelt setfirst! setlast! setrest! setvalue! size? sort sort! sorted? split! swap! tail
   third value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IMATRIX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedMatrix</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   antisymmetric? any? coerce column copy count determinant diagonal? diagonalMatrix elt empty empty? eq? every? exquo
   fill! horizConcat inverse less? listOfLists map map! matrix maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex
   minRowIndex minordet more? ncols new nrows nullSpace nullity parts qelt qsetelt! rank row rowEchelon scalarMatrix
   setColumn! setRow! setelt setsubMatrix! size? square? squareTop subMatrix swapColumns! swapRows! symmetric? transpose
   vertConcat zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IARRAY1</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedOneDimensionalArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat
   construct convert copy copyInto! count delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index?
   indices insert less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts position qelt qsetelt!
   reduce remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ISTRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedString</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">StringAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat construct copy copyInto!
   count delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first hash index? indices insert leftTrim less?
   lowerCase lowerCase! map map! match? max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts position prefix?
   qelt qsetelt! reduce remove removeDuplicates replace reverse reverse! rightTrim select setelt size? sort sort! sorted?
   split substring? suffix? swap! trim upperCase upperCase!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IARRAY2</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedTwoDimensionalArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce column copy
   count elt empty empty? eq? every? fill! less? map map! maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex minRowIndex
   more? ncols new nrows parts qelt qsetelt! row setColumn! setRow! setelt size?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IVECTOR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IndexedVector</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">VectorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat
   construct convert copy copyInto! count delete dot elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index?
   indices insert less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts position qelt qsetelt!
   reduce remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap! zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ITUPLE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InfiniteTuple</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce construct filterUntil filterWhile generate map select</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IFF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerFiniteField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP coordinates createNormalElement
   createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator inGroundField? index init inv lcm
   lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive?
   primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess?
   squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IFAMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerFreeAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FreeAbelianMonoidCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coefficient
   coerce highCommonTerms mapCoef mapGen nthCoef nthFactor retract retractIfCan size terms zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IIARRAY2</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerIndexedTwoDimensionalArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce column
   copy count elt empty empty? eq? every? fill! less? map map! maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex
   minRowIndex more? ncols new nrows parts qelt qsetelt! row setColumn! setRow! setelt size?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IPADIC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerPAdicInteger</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PAdicIntegerCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> approximate
   associates? characteristic coerce complete digits divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extend
   extendedEuclidean gcd lcm moduloP modulus multiEuclidean one? order principalIdeal quo quotientByP recip rem sizeLess?
   sqrt unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IPF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerPrimeField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField FiniteFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP
   convert coordinates createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide
   euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator
   inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one?
   order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType
   represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace
   transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ITAYLOR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InnerTaylorSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IntegralDomain Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> associates?
   characteristic coefficients coerce exquo one? order pole? recip series unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">INFORM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">InputForm</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo SExpressionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   atom? binary car cdr coerce compile convert declare destruct elt eq expr flatten float float? function integer integer?
   interpret lambda list? null? pair? string string? symbol symbol? uequal unparse</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ZMOD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IntegerMod</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CommutativeRing ConvertibleTo Finite StepThrough</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> characteristic coerce convert index init lookup nextItem one? random recip size zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">INT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Integer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo IntegerNumberSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs
   addmod associates? base binomial bit? characteristic coerce convert copy dec differentiate divide euclideanSize even?
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorial gcd hash inc init invmod lcm length mask max min mulmod
   multiEuclidean negative? nextItem odd? one? patternMatch permutation positive? positiveRemainder powmod prime?
   principalIdeal quo random rational rational? rationalIfCan recip reducedSystem rem retract retractIfCan shift sign
   sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart submod symmetricRemainder unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">IntegrationResult</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Module RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D coerce differentiate elem?
   integral logpart mkAnswer notelem ratpart retract retractIfCan zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">KERNEL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Kernel</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CachableSet ConvertibleTo Patternable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> argument coerce convert height is?
   kernel max min name operator position setPosition symbolIfCan</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">KAFILE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">KeyedAccessFile</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FileCategory TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag close! coerce construct copy
   count dictionary elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect
   iomode key? keys less? map map! maxIndex member? members minIndex more? name open pack! parts qelt qsetelt! read!
   reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates reopen! search select select! setelt size? swap! table write!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LAUPOL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LaurentPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero ConvertibleTo DifferentialExtension
   EuclideanDomain FullyRetractableTo IntegralDomain RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coerce convert degree differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean gcd lcm leadingCoefficient monomial monomial? multiEuclidean one? order
   principalIdeal quo recip reductum rem retract retractIfCan separate sizeLess? trailingCoefficient unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LIB</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Library</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? library map
   map! maxIndex member? members minIndex more? pack! parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search
   select select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LSQM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LieSquareMatrix</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo FramedNonAssociativeAlgebra SquareMatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">   **</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D JacobiIdentity? JordanAlgebra? alternative? antiAssociative? antiCommutative?
   antiCommutator antisymmetric? any? apply associative? associator associatorDependence basis characteristic coerce
   column commutative? commutator conditionsForIdempotents convert coordinates copy count determinant diagonal diagonal?
   diagonalMatrix diagonalProduct differentiate elt empty empty? eq? every? exquo flexible? inverse jordanAdmissible?
   leftAlternative? leftCharacteristicPolynomial leftDiscriminant leftMinimalPolynomial leftNorm leftPower
   leftRankPolynomial leftRecip leftRegularRepresentation leftTrace leftTraceMatrix leftUnit leftUnits less?
   lieAdmissible? lieAlgebra? listOfLists map map! matrix maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex minRowIndex
   minordet more? ncols noncommutativeJordanAlgebra? nrows nullSpace nullity one? parts plenaryPower powerAssociative?
   qelt rank recip reducedSystem represents retract retractIfCan rightAlternative? rightCharacteristicPolynomial
   rightDiscriminant rightMinimalPolynomial rightNorm rightPower rightRankPolynomial rightRecip rightRegularRepresentation
   rightTrace rightTraceMatrix rightUnit rightUnits row rowEchelon scalarMatrix size? someBasis square?
   structuralConstants symmetric? trace unit zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LODO</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LinearOrdinaryDifferentialOperator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MonogenicLinearOperator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> D characteristic coefficient coerce degree elt leadingCoefficient leftDivide leftExactQuotient leftGcd leftLcm
   leftQuotient leftRemainder minimumDegree monomial one? recip reductum rightDivide rightExactQuotient rightGcd rightLcm
   rightQuotient rightRemainder zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LMOPS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ListMonoidOps</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RetractableTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce leftMult listOfMonoms makeMulti makeTerm
   makeUnit mapExpon mapGen nthExpon nthFactor outputForm plus retract retractIfCan reverse reverse! rightMult size</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LMDICT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ListMultiDictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MultiDictionary</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct convert copy count
   dictionary duplicates duplicates? empty empty? eq? every? extract! find insert! inspect less? map map! member? members
   more? parts reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! select select! size? substitute</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LIST</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">List</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ListAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? append child? children coerce concat concat! cons
   construct convert copy copyInto! count cycleEntry cycleLength cycleSplit! cycleTail cyclic? delete delete! distance elt
   empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? explicitlyFinite? fill! find first index? indices insert insert! last leaf?
   less? list map map! max maxIndex member? members merge merge! min minIndex more? new nil node? nodes null parts
   position possiblyInfinite? qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! rest reverse reverse!
   second select select! setDifference setIntersection setUnion setchildren! setelt setfirst! setlast! setrest! setvalue!
   size? sort sort! sorted? split! swap! tail third value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LA</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">LocalAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra OrderedRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> abs
   characteristic coerce denom max min negative? numer one? positive? recip sign zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">LO</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Localize</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Module OrderedAbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce denom max
   min numer zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MKCHSET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MakeCachableSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CachableSet CoercibleTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce max min position setPosition</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MKODRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MakeOrdinaryDifferentialRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo DifferentialRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D characteristic coerce differentiate one? recip zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MATRIX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Matrix</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> antisymmetric? any?
   coerce column copy count determinant diagonal? diagonalMatrix elt empty empty? eq? every? exquo fill! horizConcat
   inverse less? listOfLists map map! matrix maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex minRowIndex minordet
   more? ncols new nrows nullSpace nullity parts qelt qsetelt! rank row rowEchelon scalarMatrix setColumn! setRow! setelt
   setsubMatrix! size? square? squareTop subMatrix swapColumns! swapRows! symmetric? transpose vertConcat zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MODMON</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ModMonic</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Finite UnivariatePolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> An D UnVectorise Vectorise associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce composite
   computePowers conditionP content degree differentiate discriminant divide divideExponents elt euclideanSize eval
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground
   ground? index init integrate isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial lift lookup mainVariable
   makeSUP map mapExponents max min minimumDegree modulus monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multiEuclidean
   multiplyExponents multivariate nextItem numberOfMonomials one? order pow prime? primitiveMonomials primitivePart
   principalIdeal pseudoDivide pseudoQuotient pseudoRemainder quo random recip reduce reducedSystem reductum rem resultant
   retract retractIfCan separate setPoly size sizeLess? solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart
   squareFreePolynomial subResultantGcd totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate unmakeSUP variables
   vectorise zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MODFIELD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ModularField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Field</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> associates? characteristic
   coerce divide euclideanSize exQuo expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor gcd inv lcm modulus multiEuclidean
   one? prime? principalIdeal quo recip reduce rem sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal
   zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MODRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ModularRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> characteristic coerce exQuo inv
   modulus one? recip reduce zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MOEBIUS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MoebiusTransform</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Group</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce commutator conjugate eval inv
   moebius one? recip scale shift</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MonoidRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero Finite RetractableTo Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span>
   <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce index leadingCoefficient
   leadingMonomial lookup map monomial monomial? monomials numberOfMonomials one? random recip reductum retract
   retractIfCan size terms zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MSET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Multiset</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MultiSetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag brace coerce construct convert copy count
   dictionary difference duplicates empty empty? eq? every? extract! find insert! inspect intersect less? map map! member?
   members more? multiset parts reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates removeDuplicates! select select! size? subset?
   symmetricDifference union</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">MPOLY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">MultivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP content convert degree
   differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground
   ground? isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable map mapExponents max min
   minimumDegree monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? prime? primitiveMonomials
   primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum resultant retract retractIfCan solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree
   squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NDP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">NewDirectProduct</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs any? characteristic coerce copy count differentiate dimension directProduct dot elt empty empty? entries
   entry? eq? every? fill! first index index? indices less? lookup map map! max maxIndex member? members min minIndex
   more? negative? one? parts positive? qelt qsetelt! random recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan setelt sign size
   size? sup swap! unitVector zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NDMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">NewDistributedMultivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span>
   <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP const content
   convert degree differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd
   gcdPolynomial ground ground? isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable map mapExponents
   max min minimumDegree monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? prime?
   primitiveMonomials primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum reorder resultant retract retractIfCan
   solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal
   univariate variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NONE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">None</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">NNI</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">NonNegativeInteger</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Monoid OrderedAbelianMonoidSup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   coerce divide exquo gcd max min one? quo recip rem sup zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OCT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Octonion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FullyRetractableTo OctonionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> abs
   characteristic charthRoot coerce conjugate convert elt eval imagE imagI imagJ imagK imagi imagj imagk index inv lookup
   map max min norm octon one? random rational rational? rationalIfCan real recip retract retractIfCan size zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ARRAY1</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OneDimensionalArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat
   construct convert copy copyInto! count delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index?
   indices insert less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new oneDimensionalArray parts
   position qelt qsetelt! reduce remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ONECOMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OnePointCompletion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup FullyRetractableTo OrderedRing SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> abs characteristic coerce finite? infinite? infinity max min negative? one? positive?
   rational rational? rationalIfCan recip retract retractIfCan sign zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Operator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra CharacteristicNonZero CharacteristicZero Eltable RetractableTo Ring</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">   **</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> characteristic charthRoot coerce elt evaluate one? opeval recip retract retractIfCan zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OMLO</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OppositeMonogenicLinearOperator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialRing MonogenicLinearOperator</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span>
   <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D characteristic coefficient coerce degree differentiate leadingCoefficient minimumDegree monomial one?
   op po recip reductum zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ORDCOMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedCompletion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup FullyRetractableTo OrderedRing SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">   +</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> abs characteristic coerce finite? infinite? max min minusInfinity negative? one?
   plusInfinity positive? rational rational? rationalIfCan recip retract retractIfCan sign whatInfinity zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ODP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedDirectProduct</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DirectProductCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">   &lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs any? characteristic coerce copy count differentiate dimension directProduct dot elt empty empty?
   entries entry? eq? every? fill! first index index? indices less? lookup map map! max maxIndex member? members min
   minIndex more? negative? one? parts positive? qelt qsetelt! random recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan setelt sign
   size size? sup swap! unitVector zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OVAR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderedVariableList</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo OrderedFinite</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce convert index lookup max min
   random size variable</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ODPOL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderlyDifferentialPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialPolynomialCategory RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">   +</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP
   content degree differentialVariables differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial
   factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground ground? initial isExpt isPlus isTimes isobaric? lcm leader
   leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable makeVariable map mapExponents max min minimumDegree monicDivide
   monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? order prime? primitiveMonomials primitivePart recip
   reducedSystem reductum resultant retract retractIfCan separant solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart
   squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables weight weights zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ODVAR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrderlyDifferentialVariable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialVariableCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D coerce differentiate
   makeVariable max min order retract retractIfCan variable weight</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ODR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrdinaryDifferentialRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra DifferentialRing Field</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic coerce differentiate divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean factor gcd inv lcm multiEuclidean one? prime? principalIdeal quo recip rem sizeLess? squareFree
   squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OSI</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OrdSetInts</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce max min value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">OUTFORM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">OutputForm</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;=</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> <span class="teletype">></span>
   <span class="teletype">>=</span> D SEGMENT <span class="teletype">\^{}=</span> and assign blankSeparate box brace bracket center coerce commaSeparate differentiate div
   dot elt empty exquo hconcat height hspace infix infix? int label left matrix message messagePrint not or outputForm
   over overbar paren pile postfix prefix presub presuper prime print prod quo quote rarrow rem right root rspace scripts
   semicolonSeparate slash string sub subHeight sum super superHeight supersub vconcat vspace width zag</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PADIC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PAdicInteger</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PAdicIntegerCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> approximate
   associates? characteristic coerce complete digits divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extend
   extendedEuclidean gcd lcm moduloP modulus multiEuclidean one? order principalIdeal quo quotientByP recip rem sizeLess?
   sqrt unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PADICRC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PAdicRationalConstructor</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs approximate associates? ceiling characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP continuedFraction convert
   denom denominator differentiate divide elt euclideanSize eval expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor
   factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial floor fractionPart gcd gcdPolynomial init inv lcm map max min
   multiEuclidean negative? nextItem numer numerator one? patternMatch positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random recip
   reducedSystem rem removeZeroes retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess? solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree
   squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PADICRAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PAdicRational</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   approximate associates? characteristic coerce continuedFraction denom denominator differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor fractionPart gcd inv lcm map multiEuclidean numer numerator one?
   prime? principalIdeal quo recip reducedSystem rem removeZeroes retract retractIfCan sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart
   unit? unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PALETTE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Palette</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> bright coerce dark dim hue light pastel shade</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PARPCURV</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ParametricPlaneCurve</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coordinate curve</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PARSCURV</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ParametricSpaceCurve</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coordinate curve</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PARSURF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ParametricSurface</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coordinate surface</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PFR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PartialFraction</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Algebra Field</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> associates?
   characteristic coerce compactFraction divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor firstDenom
   firstNumer gcd inv lcm multiEuclidean nthFractionalTerm numberOfFractionalTerms one? padicFraction padicallyExpand
   partialFraction prime? principalIdeal quo recip rem sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal
   wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PRTITION</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Partition</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo OrderedCancellationAbelianMonoid</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   coerce conjugate convert max min partition pdct powers zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PATLRES</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PatternMatchListResult</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> atoms coerce failed failed? lists makeResult new</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PATRES</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PatternMatchResult</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> addMatch addMatchRestricted coerce construct destruct failed
   failed? getMatch insertMatch new satisfy? union</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PATTERN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Pattern</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RetractableTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> addBadValue coerce
   constant? convert copy depth elt generic? getBadValues hasPredicate? hasTopPredicate? inR? isExpt isList isOp isPlus
   isPower isQuotient isTimes multiple? optional? optpair patternVariable predicates quoted? resetBadValues retract
   retractIfCan setPredicates setTopPredicate symbol? topPredicate variables withPredicates</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PENDTREE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PendantTree</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">BinaryRecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? children coerce copy count cyclic? elt
   empty empty? eq? every? leaf? leaves left less? map map! member? members more? node? nodes parts ptree right
   setchildren! setelt setleft! setright! setvalue! size? value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PERMGRP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PermutationGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;=</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> base coerce degree elt generators
   initializeGroupForWordProblem member? movedPoints orbit orbits order permutationGroup random strongGenerators
   wordInGenerators wordInStrongGenerators wordsForStrongGenerators</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PERM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Permutation</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PermutationCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce coerceImages
   coerceListOfPairs coercePreimagesImages commutator conjugate cycle cyclePartition cycles degree elt eval even?
   fixedPoints inv listRepresentation max min movedPoints numberOfCycles odd? one? orbit order recip sign sort</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">HACKPI</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Pi</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CharacteristicZero CoercibleTo ConvertibleTo Field RealConstant RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">   **</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> associates? characteristic coerce convert divide euclideanSize expressIdealMember
   exquo extendedEuclidean factor gcd inv lcm multiEuclidean one? pi prime? principalIdeal quo recip rem retract
   retractIfCan sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ACPLOT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PlaneAlgebraicCurvePlot</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PlottablePlaneCurveCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce listBranches makeSketch refine xRange
   yRange</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PLOT3D</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Plot3D</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PlottableSpaceCurveCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">adaptive3D? coerce debug3D listBranches maxPoints3D minPoints3D
   numFunEvals3D plot pointPlot refine screenResolution3D setAdaptive3D setMaxPoints3D setMinPoints3D
   setScreenResolution3D tRange tValues xRange yRange zRange zoom</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PLOT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Plot</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PlottablePlaneCurveCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">adaptive? coerce debug listBranches maxPoints minPoints numFunEvals
   parametric? plot plotPolar pointPlot refine screenResolution setAdaptive setMaxPoints setMinPoints setScreenResolution
   tRange xRange yRange zoom</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">POINT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Point</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PointCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat construct
   convert copy copyInto! count cross delete dimension dot elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? extend fill! find
   first index? indices insert length less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts point
   position qelt qsetelt! reduce remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap!
   zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">IDEAL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PolynomialIdeals</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> backOldPos coerce contract dimension
   element? generalPosition generators groebner groebner? groebnerIdeal ideal in? inRadical? intersect leadingIdeal
   quotient relationsIdeal saturate zeroDim?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PolynomialRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAbelianMonoidRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> associates?
   characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce content degree exquo ground ground? leadingCoefficient
   leadingMonomial map mapExponents minimumDegree monomial monomial? numberOfMonomials one? primitivePart recip reductum
   retract retractIfCan unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">POLY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Polynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP content convert degree differentiate
   discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground ground? integrate
   isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable map mapExponents max min minimumDegree
   monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? patternMatch prime? primitiveMonomials
   primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum resultant retract retractIfCan solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree
   squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PI</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PositiveInteger</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianSemiGroup Monoid OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce gcd
   max min one? recip</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PrimeField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo FiniteAlgebraicExtensionField FiniteFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span>
   <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> Frobenius algebraic? associates? basis characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP convert
   coordinates createNormalElement createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial degree dimension discreteLog divide
   euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean extensionDegree factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator
   inGroundField? index init inv lcm lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm normal? normalElement one?
   order prime? primeFrobenius primitive? primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random recip rem representationType
   represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace
   transcendenceDegree transcendent? unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PRIMARR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">PrimitiveArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OneDimensionalArrayAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat construct
   convert copy copyInto! count delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index? indices insert
   less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts position qelt qsetelt! reduce remove
   removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">PRODUCT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Product</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup AbelianMonoid CancellationAbelianMonoid Finite Group Monoid
   OrderedAbelianMonoidSup OrderedSet SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce
   commutator conjugate index inv lookup makeprod max min one? random recip selectfirst selectsecond size sup zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QFORM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">QuadraticForm</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">AbelianGroup</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce elt matrix quadraticForm zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QALGSET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">QuasiAlgebraicSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce definingEquations definingInequation
   empty? idealSimplify quasiAlgebraicSet setStatus simplify</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QUAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Quaternion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuaternionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs
   characteristic charthRoot coerce conjugate convert differentiate elt eval imagI imagJ imagK inv map max min norm one?
   quatern rational rational? rationalIfCan real recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QEQUAT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">QueryEquation</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">equation value variable</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">QUEUE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Queue</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QueueAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? back bag coerce copy count dequeue! empty empty? enqueue!
   eq? every? extract! front insert! inspect length less? map map! member? members more? parts queue rotate! size?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RADFF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RadicalFunctionField</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FunctionFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   absolutelyIrreducible? associates? basis branchPoint? branchPointAtInfinity? characteristic characteristicPolynomial
   charthRoot coerce complementaryBasis convert coordinates definingPolynomial derivationCoordinates differentiate
   discriminant divide elt euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor gcd generator genus integral?
   integralAtInfinity? integralBasis integralBasisAtInfinity integralCoordinates integralDerivationMatrix integralMatrix
   integralMatrixAtInfinity integralRepresents inv inverseIntegralMatrix inverseIntegralMatrixAtInfinity lcm lift
   minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nonSingularModel norm normalizeAtInfinity numberOfComponents one? prime? primitivePart
   principalIdeal quo ramified? ramifiedAtInfinity? rank rationalPoint? rationalPoints recip reduce reduceBasisAtInfinity
   reducedSystem regularRepresentation rem represents retract retractIfCan singular? singularAtInfinity? sizeLess?
   squareFree squareFreePart trace traceMatrix unit? unitCanonical unitNormal yCoordinates zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RADIX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RadixExpansion</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   abs associates? ceiling characteristic coerce convert cycleRagits denom denominator differentiate divide euclideanSize
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor floor fractRadix fractRagits fractionPart gcd init inv lcm map max
   min multiEuclidean negative? nextItem numer numerator one? patternMatch positive? prefixRagits prime? principalIdeal
   quo random recip reducedSystem rem retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal wholePart wholeRadix wholeRagits zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RMATRIX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RectangularMatrix</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo RectangularMatrixCategory VectorSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">   -</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> antisymmetric? any? coerce column copy count diagonal? dimension elt empty empty? eq? every? exquo
   less? listOfLists map map! matrix maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex minRowIndex more? ncols nrows
   nullSpace nullity parts qelt rank rectangularMatrix row rowEchelon size? square? symmetric? zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">REF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Reference</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Object SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce deref elt ref setelt setref</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RULE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RewriteRule</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Eltable RetractableTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce elt lhs pattern quotedOperators retract
   retractIfCan rhs rule suchThat</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ROMAN</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RomanNumeral</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IntegerNumberSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs addmod
   associates? base binomial bit? characteristic coerce convert copy dec differentiate divide euclideanSize even?
   expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorial gcd hash inc init invmod lcm length mask max min mulmod
   multiEuclidean negative? nextItem odd? one? patternMatch permutation positive? positiveRemainder powmod prime?
   principalIdeal quo random rational rational? rationalIfCan recip reducedSystem rem retract retractIfCan roman shift
   sign sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart submod symmetricRemainder unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RULECOLD</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">RuleCalled</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce name</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">RULESET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Ruleset</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Eltable SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce elt rules ruleset</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FORMULA1</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ScriptFormulaFormat1</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">FORMULA</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ScriptFormulaFormat</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce convert display epilogue formula new prologue
   setEpilogue! setFormula! setPrologue!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEGBIND</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SegmentBinding</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce equation segment variable</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Segment</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SegmentCategory SegmentExpansionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> BY SEGMENT coerce convert expand hi high incr
   lo low map segment</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SCFRAC</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SemiCancelledFraction</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo QuotientFieldCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   /</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs associates? ceiling characteristic charthRoot coerce conditionP convert denom denominator
   differentiate divide elt euclideanSize eval expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorPolynomial
   factorSquareFreePolynomial floor fractionPart gcd gcdPolynomial init inv lcm map max min multiEuclidean negative?
   nextItem normalize numer numerator one? patternMatch positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random recip reducedSystem rem
   retract retractIfCan sign sizeLess? solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SDPOL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SequentialDifferentialPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialPolynomialCategory RetractableTo</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce
   conditionP content degree differentialVariables differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial
   factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground ground? initial isExpt isPlus isTimes isobaric? lcm leader
   leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable makeVariable map mapExponents max min minimumDegree monicDivide
   monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? order prime? primitiveMonomials primitivePart recip
   reducedSystem reductum resultant retract retractIfCan separant solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart
   squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate variables weight weights zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SDVAR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SequentialDifferentialVariable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">DifferentialVariableCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D coerce differentiate
   makeVariable max min order retract retractIfCan variable weight</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SET</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Set</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteSetAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag brace cardinality coerce complement construct
   convert copy count dictionary difference empty empty? eq? every? extract! find index insert! inspect intersect less?
   lookup map map! max member? members min more? parts random reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates select select! size
   size? subset? symmetricDifference union universe</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEXOF</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SExpressionOf</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SExpressionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> atom? car cdr coerce convert destruct elt eq expr
   float float? integer integer? list? null? pair? string string? symbol symbol? uequal</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SEX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SExpression</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SExpressionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> atom? car cdr coerce convert destruct elt eq expr
   float float? integer integer? list? null? pair? string string? symbol symbol? uequal</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SAE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SimpleAlgebraicExtension</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MonogenicAlgebra</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   associates? basis characteristic characteristicPolynomial charthRoot coerce conditionP convert coordinates
   createPrimitiveElement definingPolynomial derivationCoordinates differentiate discreteLog discriminant divide
   euclideanSize expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorsOfCyclicGroupSize gcd generator index init inv
   lcm lift lookup minimalPolynomial multiEuclidean nextItem norm one? order prime? primeFrobenius primitive?
   primitiveElement principalIdeal quo random rank recip reduce reducedSystem regularRepresentation rem representationType
   represents retract retractIfCan size sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart tableForDiscreteLogarithm trace traceMatrix
   unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SAOS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SingletonAsOrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">OrderedSet</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> coerce create max min</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SINT</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SingleInteger</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">IntegerNumberSystem</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> And D Not Or <span class="teletype">   \^{}</span> abs addmod and associates? base binomial bit? characteristic coerce convert copy dec differentiate divide
   euclideanSize even? expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean factor factorial gcd hash inc init invmod lcm length
   mask max min mulmod multiEuclidean negative? nextItem not odd? one? or patternMatch permutation positive?
   positiveRemainder powmod prime? principalIdeal quo random rational rational? rationalIfCan recip reducedSystem rem
   retract retractIfCan shift sign sizeLess? squareFree squareFreePart submod symmetricRemainder unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal xor zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SMP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SparseMultivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">PolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce conditionP content convert degree
   differentiate discriminant eval exquo factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground
   ground? isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable map mapExponents max min
   minimumDegree monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multivariate numberOfMonomials one? patternMatch prime?
   primitiveMonomials primitivePart recip reducedSystem reductum resultant retract retractIfCan
   solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal
   univariate variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SMTS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SparseMultivariateTaylorSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MultivariateTaylorSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh characteristic
   charthRoot coefficient coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch csubst degree differentiate eval exp exquo extend
   fintegrate integrate leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map monomial monomial? nthRoot one? order pi pole?
   polynomial recip reductum sec sech sin sinh sqrt tan tanh unit? unitCanonical unitNormal variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STBL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SparseTable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? map map!
   maxIndex member? members minIndex more? parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search select
   select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SUP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SparseUnivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariatePolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span>
   <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce composite conditionP content
   degree differentiate discriminant divide divideExponents elt euclideanSize eval expressIdealMember exquo
   extendedEuclidean factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground ground? init integrate
   isExpt isPlus isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable makeSUP map mapExponents max min
   minimumDegree monicDivide monomial monomial? monomials multiEuclidean multiplyExponents multivariate nextItem
   numberOfMonomials one? order outputForm prime? primitiveMonomials primitivePart principalIdeal pseudoDivide
   pseudoQuotient pseudoRemainder quo recip reducedSystem reductum rem resultant retract retractIfCan separate sizeLess?
   solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart squareFreePolynomial subResultantGcd totalDegree unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal univariate unmakeSUP variables vectorise zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SUTS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SparseUnivariateTaylorSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariateTaylorSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   /</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch approximate asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh center
   characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch degree differentiate elt
   eval exp exquo extend integrate leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map monomial monomial? multiplyCoefficients
   multiplyExponents nthRoot one? order pi pole? polynomial quoByVar recip reductum sec sech series sin sinh sqrt tan tanh
   terms truncate unit? unitCanonical unitNormal variable variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SQMATRIX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SquareMatrix</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo SquareMatrixCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">   /</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D antisymmetric? any? characteristic coerce column copy count determinant diagonal diagonal? diagonalMatrix
   diagonalProduct differentiate elt empty empty? eq? every? exquo inverse less? listOfLists map map! matrix maxColIndex
   maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex minRowIndex minordet more? ncols nrows nullSpace nullity one? parts qelt rank
   recip reducedSystem retract retractIfCan row rowEchelon scalarMatrix size? square? squareMatrix symmetric? trace
   transpose zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STACK</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Stack</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">StackAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce copy count depth empty empty? eq? every?
   extract! insert! inspect less? map map! member? members more? parts pop! push! size? stack top</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STREAM</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Stream</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">LazyStreamAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? child? children coerce complete concat concat! cons
   construct convert copy count cycleEntry cycleLength cycleSplit! cycleTail cyclic? delay delete distance elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? explicitEntries? explicitlyEmpty? explicitlyFinite? extend fill! filterUntil
   filterWhile find findCycle first frst generate index? indices insert last lazy? lazyEvaluate leaf? less? map map!
   maxIndex member? members minIndex more? new node? nodes numberOfComputedEntries output parts possiblyInfinite? qelt
   qsetelt! reduce remove removeDuplicates repeating repeating? rest rst second select setchildren! setelt setfirst!
   setlast! setrest! setvalue! showAll? showAllElements size? split! swap! tail third value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STRTBL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">StringTable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary elt
   empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? map
   map! maxIndex member? members minIndex more? parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search select
   select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">STRING</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">String</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">StringCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat construct copy copyInto! count
   delete elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index? indices insert leftTrim less? lowerCase
   lowerCase! map map! match? max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts position prefix? qelt
   qsetelt! reduce remove removeDuplicates replace reverse reverse! rightTrim select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? split
   string substring? suffix? swap! trim upperCase upperCase!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">COMPPROP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SubSpaceComponentProperty</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> close closed? coerce copy new solid solid?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SUBSPACE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SubSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> addPoint addPoint2 addPointLast birth child children closeComponent
   coerce deepCopy defineProperty extractClosed extractIndex extractPoint extractProperty internal? leaf? level merge
   modifyPoint new numberOfChildren parent pointData root? separate shallowCopy subspace traverse</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SUCH</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SuchThat</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce construct lhs rhs</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SYMBOL</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Symbol</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ConvertibleTo OrderedSet PatternMatchable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> argscript coerce convert elt list
   max min name new patternMatch resetNew script scripted? scripts string subscript superscript</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SYMPOLY</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">SymmetricPolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FiniteAbelianMonoidRing</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span>
   associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce content degree exquo ground ground?
   leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial map mapExponents minimumDegree monomial monomial? numberOfMonomials one?
   primitivePart recip reductum retract retractIfCan unit? unitCanonical unitNormal zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TABLEAU</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Tableau</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce listOfLists tableau</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TABLE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Table</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TableAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? bag coerce construct copy count dictionary elt empty
   empty? entries entry? eq? every? extract! fill! find first index? indices insert! inspect key? keys less? map map!
   maxIndex member? members minIndex more? parts qelt qsetelt! reduce remove remove! removeDuplicates search select
   select! setelt size? swap! table</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TaylorSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">MultivariateTaylorSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D
   acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh characteristic charthRoot coefficient
   coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch degree differentiate eval exp exquo extend fintegrate integrate
   leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map monomial monomial? nthRoot one? order pi pole? polynomial recip reductum sec
   sech sin sinh sqrt tan tanh unit? unitCanonical unitNormal variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TEX1</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TexFormat1</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">Object</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TEX</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TexFormat</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce convert display epilogue new prologue setEpilogue! setPrologue!
   setTex! tex</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TEXTFILE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TextFile</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">FileCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> close! coerce endOfFile? iomode name open read! readIfCan! readLine!
   readLineIfCan! reopen! write! writeLine!</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VIEW3D</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ThreeDimensionalViewport</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> axes clipSurface close coerce colorDef controlPanel
   diagonals dimensions drawStyle eyeDistance hitherPlane intensity key lighting makeViewport3D modifyPointData move
   options outlineRender perspective reset resize rotate showClipRegion showRegion subspace title translate
   viewDeltaXDefault viewDeltaYDefault viewPhiDefault viewThetaDefault viewZoomDefault viewpoint viewport3D write zoom</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">SPACE3</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">ThreeSpace</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">ThreeSpaceCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> check closedCurve closedCurve? coerce components composite
   composites copy create3Space curve curve? enterPointData lllip lllp llprop lp lprop merge mesh mesh? modifyPointData
   numberOfComponents numberOfComposites objects point point? polygon polygon? subspace</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TREE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Tree</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">RecursiveAggregate</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? children coerce copy count cyclic? elt empty empty? eq?
   every? leaf? leaves less? map map! member? members more? node? nodes parts setchildren! setelt setvalue! size? tree
   value</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TUBE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TubePlot</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">closed? getCurve listLoops open? setClosed tube</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">TUPLE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Tuple</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce length select</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ARRAY2</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TwoDimensionalArray</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">TwoDimensionalArrayCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce column copy count elt
   empty empty? eq? every? fill! less? map map! maxColIndex maxRowIndex member? members minColIndex minRowIndex more?
   ncols new nrows parts qelt qsetelt! row setColumn! setRow! setelt size?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VIEW2D</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">TwoDimensionalViewport</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> axes close coerce connect controlPanel dimensions
   getGraph graphState graphStates graphs key makeViewport2D move options points putGraph region reset resize scale show
   title translate units viewport2D write</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ULSCONS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariateLaurentSeriesConstructor</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariateLaurentSeriesConstructorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D abs acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch approximate asec asech asin asinh
   associates? atan atanh ceiling center characteristic charthRoot coefficient coerce complete conditionP convert cos cosh
   cot coth csc csch degree denom denominator differentiate divide elt euclideanSize eval exp expressIdealMember exquo
   extend extendedEuclidean factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial floor fractionPart gcd gcdPolynomial init
   integrate inv laurent lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map max min monomial monomial? multiEuclidean
   multiplyCoefficients multiplyExponents negative? nextItem nthRoot numer numerator one? order patternMatch pi pole?
   positive? prime? principalIdeal quo random rationalFunction recip reducedSystem reductum rem removeZeroes retract
   retractIfCan sec sech series sign sin sinh sizeLess? solveLinearPolynomialEquation sqrt squareFree squareFreePart
   squareFreePolynomial tan tanh taylor taylorIfCan taylorRep terms truncate unit? unitCanonical unitNormal variable
   variables wholePart zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">ULS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariateLaurentSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariateLaurentSeriesConstructorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span>
   <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch approximate asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh center
   characteristic charthRoot coefficient coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch degree denom denominator differentiate
   divide elt euclideanSize eval exp expressIdealMember exquo extend extendedEuclidean factor gcd integrate inv laurent
   lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map monomial monomial? multiEuclidean multiplyCoefficients multiplyExponents
   nthRoot numer numerator one? order pi pole? prime? principalIdeal quo rationalFunction recip reducedSystem reductum rem
   removeZeroes retract retractIfCan sec sech series sin sinh sizeLess? sqrt squareFree squareFreePart tan tanh taylor
   taylorIfCan taylorRep terms truncate unit? unitCanonical unitNormal variable variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UP</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePolynomial</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariatePolynomialCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span>
   <span class="teletype">=</span> D associates? characteristic charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce composite conditionP content degree
   differentiate discriminant divide divideExponents elt euclideanSize eval expressIdealMember exquo extendedEuclidean
   factor factorPolynomial factorSquareFreePolynomial gcd gcdPolynomial ground ground? init integrate isExpt isPlus
   isTimes lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial mainVariable makeSUP map mapExponents max min minimumDegree monicDivide
   monomial monomial? monomials multiEuclidean multiplyExponents multivariate nextItem numberOfMonomials one? order prime?
   primitiveMonomials primitivePart principalIdeal pseudoDivide pseudoQuotient pseudoRemainder quo recip reducedSystem
   reductum rem resultant retract retractIfCan separate sizeLess? solveLinearPolynomialEquation squareFree squareFreePart
   squareFreePolynomial subResultantGcd totalDegree unit? unitCanonical unitNormal univariate unmakeSUP variables
   vectorise zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UPXSCONS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePuiseuxSeriesConstructor</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariatePuiseuxSeriesConstructorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span>
   <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch approximate asec asech asin asinh associates? atan
   atanh center characteristic charthRoot coefficient coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch degree differentiate
   divide elt euclideanSize eval exp expressIdealMember exquo extend extendedEuclidean factor gcd integrate inv laurent
   laurentIfCan laurentRep lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map monomial monomial? multiEuclidean
   multiplyExponents nthRoot one? order pi pole? prime? principalIdeal puiseux quo rationalPower recip reductum rem
   retract retractIfCan sec sech series sin sinh sizeLess? sqrt squareFree squareFreePart tan tanh terms truncate unit?
   unitCanonical unitNormal variable variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UPXS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariatePuiseuxSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariatePuiseuxSeriesConstructorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">   -</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> D acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch approximate asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh center
   characteristic charthRoot coefficient coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch degree differentiate divide elt
   euclideanSize eval exp expressIdealMember exquo extend extendedEuclidean factor gcd integrate inv laurent laurentIfCan
   laurentRep lcm leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial log map monomial monomial? multiEuclidean multiplyExponents nthRoot
   one? order pi pole? prime? principalIdeal puiseux quo rationalPower recip reductum rem retract retractIfCan sec sech
   series sin sinh sizeLess? sqrt squareFree squareFreePart tan tanh terms truncate unit? unitCanonical unitNormal
   variable variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UTS</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UnivariateTaylorSeries</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">UnivariateTaylorSeriesCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">0 1 <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">**</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">/</span> <span class="teletype">   =</span> D acos acosh acot acoth acsc acsch approximate asec asech asin asinh associates? atan atanh center characteristic
   charthRoot coefficient coefficients coerce complete cos cosh cot coth csc csch degree differentiate elt eval
   evenlambert exp exquo extend generalLambert integrate invmultisect lagrange lambert leadingCoefficient leadingMonomial
   log map monomial monomial? multiplyCoefficients multiplyExponents multisect nthRoot oddlambert one? order pi pole?
   polynomial quoByVar recip reductum revert sec sech series sin sinh sqrt tan tanh terms truncate unit? unitCanonical
   unitNormal univariatePolynomial variable variables zero?</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">UNISEG</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">UniversalSegment</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">SegmentCategory SegmentExpansionCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> BY SEGMENT coerce convert expand
   hasHi hi high incr lo low map segment</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VARIABLE</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Variable</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">CoercibleTo SetCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype">=</span> coerce variable</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VECTOR</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Vector</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs">VectorCategory</td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops"><span class="teletype"> #</span> <span class="teletype">*</span> <span class="teletype">+</span> <span class="teletype">-</span> <span class="teletype">&lt;</span> <span class="teletype">=</span> any? coerce concat construct
   convert copy copyInto! count delete dot elt empty empty? entries entry? eq? every? fill! find first index? indices
   insert less? map map! max maxIndex member? members merge min minIndex more? new parts position qelt qsetelt! reduce
   remove removeDuplicates reverse reverse! select setelt size? sort sort! sorted? swap! vector zero</td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p><table class="category-domain-package">
<tr><td>Abbreviation: </td><td class="abbrev">VOID</td></tr>
<tr><td>Full name: </td><td class="full">Void</td></tr>
<tr><td>Belongs to: </td><td class="membs"></td></tr>
<tr><td>Operations: </td><td class="ops">coerce void</td></tr>
</table>
</p>







</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-17.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 17.1  Axiom Categories</a><a href="section-19.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 19.1  Axiom Packages</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>