<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.2</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.1 Introduction</a><a href="section-16.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.3 )boot</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.2">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.2  )abbreviation</h2>



<p><span class="index">abbreviation</span><a name="chapter-16-5"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> compiler
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
 <span class="teletype">)abbreviation query  [<span class="italic">nameOrAbbrev</span>]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)abbreviation category  <span class="italic">abbrev  fullname</span> [)quiet]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)abbreviation domain  <span class="italic">abbrev  fullname</span>   [)quiet]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)abbreviation package  <span class="italic">abbrev  fullname</span>  [)quiet]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)abbreviation remove  <span class="italic">nameOrAbbrev</span></span>
</div>
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>This command is used to query, set and remove abbreviations for category,
domain and package constructors.
Every constructor must have a unique abbreviation.
This abbreviation is part of the name of the subdirectory
under which the components of the compiled constructor are
stored.
</p>



<p><!-- BEGIN OBSOLETE
 It is this abbreviation that is used to bring compiled code into
 Axiom with the <span class="teletype">)load</span> command.
 END OBSOLETE -->
</p>



<p>Furthermore, by issuing this command you
let the system know what file to load automatically if you use a new
constructor.
Abbreviations must start with a letter and then be followed by
up to seven letters or digits.
Any letters appearing in the abbreviation must be in uppercase.
</p>


<p>When used with the <span class="teletype">query</span> argument,
<span class="index">abbreviation query</span><a name="chapter-16-6"/>
this command may be used to list the name
associated with a  particular abbreviation or the  abbreviation for a
constructor.
If no abbreviation or name is given, the names and corresponding
abbreviations for <span class="italic">all</span> constructors are listed.
</p>


<p>The following shows the abbreviation for the constructor <span class="teletype">List</span>:
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;query&nbsp;List<br />
</div>


<p>The following shows the constructor name corresponding to the
abbreviation <span class="teletype">NNI</span>:
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;query&nbsp;NNI<br />
</div>


<p>The following lists all constructor names and their abbreviations.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;query<br />
</div>



<p>To add an abbreviation for a constructor, use this command with
<span class="teletype">category</span>, <span class="teletype">domain</span> or <span class="teletype">package</span>.
<span class="index">abbreviation package</span><a name="chapter-16-7"/>
<span class="index">abbreviation domain</span><a name="chapter-16-8"/>
<span class="index">abbreviation category</span><a name="chapter-16-9"/>
The following add abbreviations to the system for a
category, domain and package, respectively:
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;domain&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;SET&nbsp;Set<br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;category&nbsp;COMPCAT&nbsp;&nbsp;ComplexCategory<br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;package&nbsp;&nbsp;LIST2MAP&nbsp;ListToMap<br />
</div>



<p>If the <span class="teletype">)quiet</span> option is used,
no output is displayed from this command.
You would normally only define an abbreviation in a library source file.
If this command is issued for a constructor that has already been loaded, the
constructor will be reloaded next time it is referenced.  In particular, you
can use this command to force the automatic reloading of constructors.
</p>


<p>To remove an abbreviation, the <span class="teletype">remove</span> argument is used.
<span class="index">abbreviation remove</span><a name="chapter-16-10"/>
This is usually
only used to correct a previous command that set an abbreviation for a
constructor name.
If, in fact, the abbreviation does exist, you are prompted
for confirmation of the removal request.
Either of the following commands
will remove the abbreviation <span class="teletype">VECTOR2</span> and the
constructor name <span class="teletype">VectorFunctions2</span> from the system:
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;remove&nbsp;VECTOR2<br />
)abbreviation&nbsp;remove&nbsp;VectorFunctions2<br />
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)compile</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdcompile</span><a name="chapter-16-11"/> 
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.1 Introduction</a><a href="section-16.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.3 )boot</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>