<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section3.8</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-3.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.7 Example Pages</a><a href="section-4.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 4.0 Input Files and Output Styles</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-3.8">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">3.8  X Window Resources for HyperDoc</h2>


<a name="ugHyperResources" class="label"/>


<p>You can control the appearance of HyperDoc while running under Version
11 <span class="index">HyperDoc X Window System defaults</span><a name="chapter-3-3"/> of the X Window System by
placing the following resources <span class="index">X Window System</span><a name="chapter-3-4"/> in the file
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> .Xdefaults</span> in your home directory.  <span class="index">file:.Xdefaults</span><a name="chapter-3-5"/> 
In what follows, <span class="italic">font</span> is any valid X11 font name
<span class="index">font</span><a name="chapter-3-6"/> (for example, <span class="teletype">Rom14</span>) and <span class="italic">color</span> is any valid
X11 color <span class="index">color</span><a name="chapter-3-7"/> specification (for example, <span class="teletype">NavyBlue</span>).
For more information about fonts and colors, refer to the X Window
documentation for your system.
</p>



<dl>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.RmFont:</span> <span class="italic">font</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the standard text font.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">Rom14</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.RmColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the standard text color.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.ActiveFont:</span> <span class="italic">font</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the font used for HyperDoc link buttons.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">Bld14</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.ActiveColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for HyperDoc link buttons.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.AxiomFont:</span> <span class="italic">font</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the font used for active Axiom commands.
The default value is <span class="teletype">Bld14</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.AxiomColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for active Axiom commands.
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.BoldFont:</span> <span class="italic">font</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the font used for bold face.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">Bld14</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.BoldColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for bold face.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.TtFont:</span> <span class="italic">font</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the font used for Axiom output in HyperDoc.
This font must be fixed-width.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">Rom14</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.TtColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for Axiom output in HyperDoc.
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.EmphasizeFont:</span> <span class="italic">font</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the font used for italics.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">Itl14</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.EmphasizeColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for italics.  
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.InputBackground:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used as the background for input areas.
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.InputForeground:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used as the foreground for input areas.
The default value is <span class="teletype">white</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.BorderColor:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for drawing border lines.
The default value is <span class="teletype">black</span>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">Axiom.hyperdoc.Background:</span> <span class="italic">color</span></dt>
<dd> &nbsp;
This is the color used for the background of all windows.
The default value is <span class="teletype">white</span>
</dd>
</dl>








</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-3.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.7 Example Pages</a><a href="section-4.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 4.0 Input Files and Output Styles</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>