<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section15.4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-15.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.3 The NAG Library Link</a><a href="section-15.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.5 Library</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-15.4">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">15.4  Interactive Front-end and Language</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugWhatsNewLanguage</span><a name="chapter-15-33"/>
</p>



<p>The <span class="teletype">leave</span> keyword has been replaced by the
<span class="teletype">break</span> keyword for compatibility with the new Axiom
extension language.
See section <a href="section-5.4.xhtml#ugLangLoopsBreak" class="ref" >ugLangLoopsBreak</a> 
for more information.
</p>


<p>Curly braces are no longer used to create sets. Instead, use
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> set</span> followed by a bracketed expression. For example,
</p>




<div id="spadComm15-52" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm15-52" action="javascript:makeRequest('15-52');" >
<input id="comm15-52" type="text" class="command" style="width: 9em;" value="set [1,2,3,4]" />
</form>
<span id="commSav15-52" class="commSav" >set [1,2,3,4]</span>
<div id="mathAns15-52" ></div>
</div>



<p>Curly braces are now used to enclose a block (see section
<a href="section-5.2.xhtml#ugLangBlocks" class="ref" >ugLangBlocks</a> 
for more information). For compatibility, a block can still be 
enclosed by parentheses as well.
</p>


<p>``Free functions'' created by the Aldor compiler can now be
loaded and used within the Axiom interpreter. A <span class="italic">free
function</span> is a library function that is implemented outside a
domain or category constructor.
</p>


<p>New coercions to and from type <span class="teletype">Expression</span> have been
added. For example, it is now possible to map a polynomial
represented as an expression to an appropriate polynomial type.
</p>


<p>Various messages have been added or rewritten for clarity.
</p>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-15.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.3 The NAG Library Link</a><a href="section-15.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.5 Library</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>