<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section3.6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-3.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.5 Radio Buttons and Toggles</a><a href="section-3.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.7 Example Pages</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-3.6">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">3.6  Search Strings</h2>


<a name="ugHyperSearch" class="label"/>


<p>A <span class="italic">search string</span> is used for searching some database.  To learn
about search strings, we suggest that you bring up the HyperDoc
glossary.  To do this from the top-level page of HyperDoc:
</p>



<ol>
<li>
 Click on Reference, bringing up the Axiom Reference page.
</li>
<li> Click on Glossary, bringing up the glossary.
</li>
</ol>



<p>The glossary has an input area at its bottom.  We review the various
kinds of search strings you can enter to search the glossary.
</p>


<p>The simplest search string is a word, for example, <span class="teletype">operation</span>.  A
word only matches an entry having exactly that spelling.  Enter the
word <span class="teletype">operation</span> into the input area above then click on 
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> Search</span>.  As you can see, <span class="teletype">operation</span> matches only one entry,
namely with <span class="teletype">operation</span> itself.
</p>


<p>Normally matching is insensitive to whether the alphabetic characters
of your search string are in uppercase or lowercase.  Thus 
<span class="teletype">operation</span> and <span class="teletype">OperAtion</span> both have the same effect.
If you prefer that matching be case-sensitive, issue the command
<span class="teletype">set HHyperName mixedCase</span> command to the interpreter.
</p>


<p>You will very often want to use the wildcard ``<span class="teletype">*</span>'' in your search
string so as to match multiple entries in the list.  The search key
``<span class="teletype">*</span>'' matches every entry in the list.  You can also use ``<span class="teletype">*</span>''
anywhere within a search string to match an arbitrary substring.  Try
``<span class="teletype">cat*</span>'' for example: enter ``<span class="teletype">cat*</span>'' into the input area and click
on <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Search</span>.  This matches several entries.
</p>


<p>You use any number of wildcards in a search string as long as they are
not adjacent.  Try search strings such as ``<span class="teletype">*dom*</span>''.  As you see,
this search string matches ``<span class="teletype">domain</span>'', ``<span class="teletype">domain constructor</span>'',
``<span class="teletype">subdomain</span>'', and so on.
</p>



<a name="subsec-3.6.1"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-3.6.1">
<h3 class="subsectitle">3.6.1  Logical Searches</h3>


<a name="ugLogicalSearches" class="label"/>


<p>For more complicated searches, you can use ``<span class="teletype">and</span>'', ``<span class="teletype">or</span>'', and
``<span class="teletype">not</span>'' with basic search strings; write logical expressions using
these three operators just as in the Axiom language.  For example,
<span class="teletype">domain or package</span> matches the two entries <span class="teletype">domain</span> and 
<span class="teletype">package</span>.  Similarly, ``<span class="teletype">dom* and *con*</span>'' matches 
``<span class="teletype">domain constructor</span>'' and others.  Also ``<span class="teletype">not *a*</span>'' matches 
every entry that does not contain the letter ``<span class="teletype">a</span>'' somewhere.
</p>


<p>Use parentheses for grouping.  For example, ``<span class="teletype">dom* and (not *con*)</span>''
matches ``<span class="teletype">domain</span>'' but not ``<span class="teletype">domain constructor</span>''.
</p>


<p>There is no limit to how complex your logical expression can be.
For example,
</p>



<div class="center" style="text-align: center;">


<p><span class="teletype">a* or b* or c* or d* or e* and (not *a*)</span>
</p>



</div>


<p>is a valid expression.
</p>




</div>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-3.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.5 Radio Buttons and Toggles</a><a href="section-3.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.7 Example Pages</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>