<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.21</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.20.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.20 )read</a><a href="section-16.22.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.22 )show</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.21">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.21  )set</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugSysCmdset</span><a name="chapter-16-144"/>
</p>


<p><span class="index">set</span><a name="chapter-16-145"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> interpreter
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
 <span class="teletype">)set</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)set</span> <span class="italic">label1 [... labelN]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"> <span class="teletype">)set</span> <span class="italic">label1 [... labelN] newValue</span>
</div>
</div>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>The <span class="teletype">)set</span> command is used to view or set system variables that
control what messages are displayed, the type of output desired, the
status of the history facility, the way Axiom user functions are
cached, and so on.
Since this collection is very large, we will not discuss them here.
Rather, we will show how the facility is used.
We urge you to explore the <span class="teletype">)set</span> options to familiarize yourself
with how you can modify your Axiom working environment.
There is a HyperDoc version of this same facility available from the
main HyperDoc menu.
</p>



<p>The <span class="teletype">)set</span> command is command-driven with a menu display.
It is tree-structured.
To see all top-level nodes, issue <span class="teletype">)set</span> by itself.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set<br />
</div>


<p>Variables with values have them displayed near the right margin.
Subtrees of selections have ``<span class="teletype">...</span>''
displayed in the value field.
For example, there are many kinds of messages, so issue
<span class="teletype">)set message</span> to see the choices.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;message<br />
</div>


<p>The current setting  for the variable that displays
<span class="index">computation timings:displaying</span><a name="chapter-16-146"/>
whether computation times
<span class="index">timings:displaying</span><a name="chapter-16-147"/>
are displayed is visible in the menu displayed by the last command.
To see more information, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;message&nbsp;time<br />
</div>


<p>This shows that time printing is on now.
To turn it off, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;message&nbsp;time&nbsp;off<br />
</div>


<p><span class="index">set message time</span><a name="chapter-16-148"/>
</p>


<p>As noted above, not all settings have so many qualifiers.
For example, to change the <span class="teletype">)quit</span> command to being unprotected
(that is, you will not be prompted for verification), you need only issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)set&nbsp;quit&nbsp;unprotected<br />
</div>


<p><span class="index">set quit unprotected</span><a name="chapter-16-149"/>
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)quit</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdquit</span><a name="chapter-16-150"/>.
</p>





</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.20.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.20 )read</a><a href="section-16.22.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.22 )show</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>