<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section4.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-4.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 4.0 Input Files and Output Styles</a><a href="section-4.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 4.2 The .axiom.input File</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-4.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">4.1  Input Files</h2>


<a name="ugInOutIn" class="label"/>


<p>In this section we explain what an <span class="italic">input file</span> is and
<span class="index">file:input</span><a name="chapter-4-0"/> why you would want to know about it.  We discuss
where Axiom looks for input files and how you can direct it to look
elsewhere.  We also show how to read the contents of an input file
into the <span class="italic">workspace</span> and how to use the <span class="italic">history</span> facility to
generate an input file from the statements you have entered directly
into the workspace.
</p>


<p>An <span class="italic">input</span> file contains Axiom expressions and system commands.
Anything that you can enter directly to Axiom can be put into an input
file.  This is how you save input functions and expressions that you
wish to read into Axiom more than one time.
</p>


<p>To read an input file into Axiom, use the <span class="teletype">)read</span> system command.
<span class="index">read</span><a name="chapter-4-1"/> For example, you can read a file in a particular
directory by issuing
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)read&nbsp;/spad/src/input/matrix.input<br />
</div>



<p>The ``<span style="font-weight: bold;">.input</span>'' is optional; this also works:
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)read&nbsp;/spad/src/input/matrix<br />
</div>



<p>What happens if you just enter <span class="teletype">)read matrix.input</span> or even <span class="teletype">)read matrix</span>?  Axiom looks in your current working directory for
input files that are not qualified by a directory name.  Typically,
this directory is the directory from which you invoked Axiom.
</p>


<p>To change the current working directory, use the <span class="teletype">)cd</span> system
command.  The command <span class="teletype">)cd</span> by itself shows the current working
<span class="index">directory:default for searching</span><a name="chapter-4-2"/> directory.  <span class="index">cd</span><a name="chapter-4-3"/> To
change it to <span class="index">file:input:where found</span><a name="chapter-4-4"/> the <span class="teletype">src/input</span>
subdirectory for user ``babar'', issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)cd&nbsp;/u/babar/src/input<br />
</div>


<p>Axiom looks first in this directory for an input file.  If it is not
found, it looks in the system's directories, assuming you meant some
input file that was provided with Axiom.
</p>




<div class="boxed2">


<div class="boxed">



<p>If you have the Axiom history facility turned on (which it is
by default), you can save all the lines you have entered into the
workspace by entering
</p>


<p>)history )write
</p>


<p><span class="index">history )write</span><a name="chapter-4-5"/>
</p>


<p>Axiom tells you what input file to edit to see your statements.  The
file is in your home directory or in the directory you specified with
<span class="index">cd</span><a name="chapter-4-6"/> <span class="teletype">)cd</span>.<br/>
</p>



</div>
</div>



<p>In <a href="section-5.2.xhtml#ugLangBlocks" class="ref" >ugLangBlocks</a>  
we discuss using indentation in input files to
group statements into <span class="italic">blocks.</span>
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-4.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 4.0 Input Files and Output Styles</a><a href="section-4.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 4.2 The .axiom.input File</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>