<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section10.0</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-9.91.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 9.91  ZeroDimensionalSolvePackage</a><a href="section-10.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 10.1 Drawing Ribbons Interactively</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-10.0">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">10.0 Interactive Programming</h2>
<a name="ugIntProg" class="label"/>

<p>Programming in the interpreter is easy.
So is the use of Axiom's graphics facility.
Both are rather flexible and allow you to use them for many
interesting applications.
However, both require learning some basic ideas and skills.
</p>


<p>All graphics examples in the gallery section are either
produced directly by interactive commands or by interpreter
programs.
Four of these programs are introduced here.
By the end of this chapter you will know enough about graphics and
programming in the interpreter to not only understand all these
examples, but to tackle interesting and difficult problems on your
own.
The appendix on graphics lists all the remaining commands and
programs used to create these images.
</p>

</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-9.91.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 9.91  ZeroDimensionalSolvePackage</a><a href="section-10.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 10.1 Drawing Ribbons Interactively</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>