<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.26</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.25.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.25 )system</a><a href="section-16.27.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.27 )undo</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.26">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.26  )trace</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugSysCmdtrace</span><a name="chapter-16-173"/>
</p>


<p><span class="index">trace</span><a name="chapter-16-174"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> interpreter
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
<span class="teletype">)trace</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)trace )off</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)trace</span> <span class="italic">function [options]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)trace</span> <span class="italic">constructor [options]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)trace</span> <span class="italic">domainOrPackage [options]</span>
</div>
</div>



<p>where options can be one or more of
</p>




<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
<span class="teletype">)after</span> <span class="italic">S-expression</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)before</span> <span class="italic">S-expression</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)break after</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)break before</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)cond</span> <span class="italic">S-expression</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)count</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)count</span> <span class="italic">n</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)depth</span> <span class="italic">n</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)local</span> <span class="italic">op1 [... opN]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)nonquietly</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)nt</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)off</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)only</span> <span class="italic">listOfDataToDisplay</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)ops</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)ops</span> <span class="italic">op1 [... opN ]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)restore</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)stats</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)stats reset</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)timer</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)varbreak</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)varbreak</span> <span class="italic">var1 [... varN ]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)vars</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)vars</span> <span class="italic">var1 [... varN ]</span>
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)within</span> <span class="italic">executingFunction</span>
</div>
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>This command is used to trace the execution of functions that make
up the Axiom system, functions defined by users,
and functions from the system library.
Almost all options are available for each type of function but
exceptions will be noted below.
</p>


<p>To list all functions, constructors, domains and packages that are
traced, simply issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace<br />
</div>


<p>To untrace everything that is traced, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;)off<br />
</div>


<p>When a function is traced, the default system action is to display
the arguments to the function and the return value when the
function is exited.
Note that if a function is left via an action such as a <span class="teletype">THROW</span>, no
return value will be displayed.
Also, optimization of tail recursion may decrease the number of
times a function is actually invoked and so may cause less trace
information to be displayed.
Other information can be displayed or collected when a function is
traced and this is controlled by the various options.
Most options will be of interest only to Axiom system
developers.
If a domain or package is traced, the default action is to trace
all functions exported.
</p>


<p>Individual interpreter, lisp or boot
functions can be traced by listing their names after
<span class="teletype">)trace</span>.
Any options that are present must follow the functions to be
traced.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;f<br />
</div>


<p>traces the function <span class="teletype">f</span>.
To untrace <span class="teletype">f</span>, issue
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;f&nbsp;)off<br />
</div>


<p>Note that if a function name contains a special character, it will
be necessary to escape the character with an underscore
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;_/D_,1<br />
</div>



<p>To trace all domains or packages that are or will be created from a particular
constructor, give the constructor name or abbreviation after
<span class="teletype">)trace</span>.
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;MATRIX<br />
)trace&nbsp;List&nbsp;Integer<br />
</div>



<p>The first command traces all domains currently instantiated with
<span class="teletype">Matrix</span>.
If additional domains are instantiated with this constructor
(for example, if you have used <span class="teletype">Matrix(Integer)</span> and
<span class="teletype">Matrix(Float)</span>), they will be automatically traced.
The second command traces <span class="teletype">List(Integer)</span>.
It is possible to trace individual functions in a domain or
package.
See the <span class="teletype">)ops</span> option below.
</p>


<p>The following are the general options for the <span class="teletype">)trace</span>
command.
</p>


<p><!--
!! system command parser doesn't treat general s-expressions correctly,
!! I recommand not documenting )after )before and )cond
-->
</p>


<dl>
<!--
<dt><span class="teletype">)after</span> <span class="italic">S-expression</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the given Common Lisp <span class="italic">S-expression</span> to be
executed after exiting the traced function.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)before</span> <span class="italic">S-expression</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the given Common Lisp <span class="italic">S-expression</span> to be
executed before entering the traced function.
</dd>
-->
<dt><span class="teletype">)break after</span></dt>
<dd>
causes a Common Lisp break loop to be entered after
exiting the traced function.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)break before</span></dt>
<dd>
causes a Common Lisp break loop to be entered before
entering the traced function.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)break</span></dt>
<dd>
is the same as <span class="teletype">)break before</span>.
<!--
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)cond</span> <span class="italic">S-expression</span></dt>
<dd>
causes trace information to be shown only if the given
Common Lisp <span class="italic">S-expression</span> evaluates to non-NIL.  For
example, the following command causes the system function
<span class="teletype">resolveTT</span> to be traced but to have the information
displayed only if the value of the variable
<span class="teletype">$reportBottomUpFlag</span> is non-NIL.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;resolveTT&nbsp;)cond&nbsp;_$reportBottomUpFlag}<br />
</div>


<p>-->
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)count</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the system to keep a count of the number of times the
traced function is entered.  The total can be displayed with
<span class="teletype">)trace )stats</span> and cleared with <span class="teletype">)trace )stats reset</span>.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)count</span> <span class="italic">n</span></dt>
<dd>
causes information about the traced function to be displayed for
the first <span class="italic">n</span> executions.  After the <span class="italic">n</span>-th execution, the
function is untraced.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)depth</span> <span class="italic">n</span></dt>
<dd>
causes trace information to be shown for only <span class="italic">n</span> levels of
recursion of the traced function.  The command




<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;fib&nbsp;)depth&nbsp;10<br />
</div>


will cause the display of only 10 levels of trace information for
the recursive execution of a user function <span style="font-weight: bold;"> fib</span>.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)math</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the function arguments and return value to be displayed in the
Axiom monospace two-dimensional math format.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)nonquietly</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the display of additional messages when a function is
traced.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)nt</span></dt>
<dd>
This suppresses all normal trace information.  This option is
useful if the <span class="teletype">)count</span> or <span class="teletype">)timer</span> options are used and
you are interested in the statistics but not the function calling
information.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)off</span></dt>
<dd>
causes untracing of all or specific functions.  Without an
argument, all functions, constructors, domains and packages are
untraced.  Otherwise, the given functions and other objects
are untraced.  To
immediately retrace the untraced functions, issue <span class="teletype">)trace
)restore</span>.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)only</span> <span class="italic">listOfDataToDisplay</span></dt>
<dd>
causes only specific trace information to be shown.  The items are
listed by using the following abbreviations:
<dl>
<dt>a</dt>
<dd>        display all arguments
</dd>
<dt>v</dt>
<dd>        display return value
</dd>
<dt>1</dt>
<dd>        display first argument
</dd>
<dt>2</dt>
<dd>        display second argument
</dd>
<dt>15</dt>
<dd>       display the 15th argument, and so on
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
<dl>
<dt><span class="teletype">)restore</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the last untraced functions to be retraced.  If additional
options are present, they are added to those previously in effect.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)stats</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the display of statistics collected by the use of the
<span class="teletype">)count</span> and <span class="teletype">)timer</span> options.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)stats reset</span></dt>
<dd>
resets to 0 the statistics collected by the use of the
<span class="teletype">)count</span> and <span class="teletype">)timer</span> options.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)timer</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the system to keep a count of execution times for the
traced function.  The total can be displayed with <span class="teletype">)trace
)stats</span> and cleared with <span class="teletype">)trace )stats reset</span>.
<!--
!! only for lisp, boot, may not work in any case, recommend removing
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)varbreak</span></dt>
<dd>
causes a Common Lisp break loop to be entered after
the assignment to any variable in the traced function.
-->
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)varbreak</span> <span class="italic">var1 [... varN]</span></dt>
<dd>
causes a Common Lisp break loop to be entered after
the assignment to any of the listed variables in the traced
function.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)vars</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the display of the value of any variable after it is
assigned in the traced function.
Note that library code must
have been compiled (see <a href="ugSysCmdcompile" class="ref" >ugSysCmdcompile</a> )
using the <span class="teletype">)vartrace</span> option in order
to support this option.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)vars</span> <span class="italic">var1 [... varN]</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the display of the value of any of the specified variables
after they are assigned in the traced function.
Note that library code must
have been compiled (see <a href="ugSysCmdcompile" class="ref" >ugSysCmdcompile</a> )
using the <span class="teletype">)vartrace</span> option in order
to support this option.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)within</span> <span class="italic">executingFunction</span></dt>
<dd>
causes the display of trace information only if the traced
function is called when the given <span class="italic">executingFunction</span> is running.
</dd>
</dl>



<p>The following are the options for tracing constructors, domains
and packages.
</p>


<dl>
<dt><span class="teletype">)local</span> <span class="italic">[op1 [... opN]]</span></dt>
<dd>
causes local functions of the constructor to be traced.  Note that
to untrace an individual local function, you must use the fully
qualified internal name, using the escape character
<span class="teletype">_</span> before the semicolon.




<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;FRAC&nbsp;)local<br />
)trace&nbsp;FRAC_;cancelGcd&nbsp;)off<br />
</div>


</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">)ops</span> <span class="italic">op1 [... opN]</span></dt>
<dd>
By default, all operations from a domain or package are traced
when the domain or package is traced.  This option allows you to
specify that only particular operations should be traced.  The
command




<div class="verbatim"><br />
)trace&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;)ops&nbsp;min&nbsp;max&nbsp;_+&nbsp;_-<br />
</div>


traces four operations from the domain <span class="teletype">Integer</span>.  Since
<span class="teletype">+</span> and <span class="teletype">-</span> are special
characters, it is necessary
to escape them with an underscore.
</dd>
</dl>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)boot</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdboot</span><a name="chapter-16-175"/>,
<span class="teletype">)lisp</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdlisp</span><a name="chapter-16-176"/>, and
<span class="teletype">)ltrace</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdltrace</span><a name="chapter-16-177"/>.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.25.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.25 )system</a><a href="section-16.27.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.27 )undo</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>