<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section16.28</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-16.27.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.27 )undo</a><a href="section-17.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 17.1  Axiom Categories</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-16.28">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">16.28  )what</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugSysCmdwhat</span><a name="chapter-16-181"/>
</p>


<p><span class="index">what</span><a name="chapter-16-182"/>
</p>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> User Level Required:</span> interpreter
</p>


<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Syntax:</span>
</p>



<div class="beginlist">
<div class="item">
<span class="teletype">)what categories</span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)what commands  </span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)what domains   </span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)what operations</span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)what packages  </span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)what synonym   </span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)what things    </span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
<div class="item"><span class="teletype">)apropos        </span> <span class="italic">pattern1</span> [<span class="italic">pattern2 ...</span>]
</div>
</div>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Command Description:</span>
</p>


<p>This command is used to display lists of things in the system.  The
patterns are all strings and, if present, restrict the contents of the
lists.  Only those items that contain one or more of the strings as
substrings are displayed.  For example,
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)what&nbsp;synonym<br />
</div>


<p>displays all command synonyms,
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)what&nbsp;synonym&nbsp;ver<br />
</div>


<p>displays all command synonyms containing the substring ``<span class="teletype">ver</span>'',
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
)what&nbsp;synonym&nbsp;ver&nbsp;pr<br />
</div>


<p>displays all command synonyms
containing the substring  ``<span class="teletype">ver</span>'' or  the substring
``<span class="teletype">pr</span>''.
Output similar to the following will be displayed
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
----------------&nbsp;System&nbsp;Command&nbsp;Synonyms&nbsp;-----------------<br />
<br />
user-defined&nbsp;synonyms&nbsp;satisfying&nbsp;patterns:<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ver&nbsp;pr<br />
<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;)apr&nbsp;...........................&nbsp;)what&nbsp;things<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;)apropos&nbsp;.......................&nbsp;)what&nbsp;things<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;)prompt&nbsp;........................&nbsp;)set&nbsp;message&nbsp;prompt<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;)version&nbsp;.......................&nbsp;)lisp&nbsp;*yearweek*<br />
</div>



<p>Several other things can be listed with the <span class="teletype">)what</span> command:
</p>


<dl>
<dt><span class="teletype">categories</span></dt>
<dd> displays a list of category constructors.
<span class="index">what categories</span><a name="chapter-16-183"/>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">commands</span></dt>
<dd>  displays a list of  system commands available  at your
user-level.
<span class="index">what commands</span><a name="chapter-16-184"/>
Your user-level
<span class="index">user-level</span><a name="chapter-16-185"/>
is set via the  <span class="teletype">)set userlevel</span> command.
<span class="index">set userlevel</span><a name="chapter-16-186"/>
To get a description of a particular command, such as ``<span class="teletype">)what</span>'', issue
<span class="teletype">)help what</span>.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">domains</span></dt>
<dd>   displays a list of domain constructors.
<span class="index">what domains</span><a name="chapter-16-187"/>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">operations</span></dt>
<dd> displays a list of operations in  the system library.
<span class="index">what operations</span><a name="chapter-16-188"/>
It  is recommended that you  qualify this command with one or
more patterns, as there are thousands of operations available.  For
example, say you are looking for functions that involve computation of
eigenvalues.  To find their names, try <span class="teletype">)what operations eig</span>.
A rather large list of operations  is loaded into the workspace when
this command  is first issued.  This  list will be deleted  when you
clear the workspace  via <span class="teletype">)clear all</span> or <span class="teletype">)clear completely</span>.
It will be re-created if it is needed again.
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">packages</span></dt>
<dd>  displays a list of package constructors.
<span class="index">what packages</span><a name="chapter-16-189"/>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">synonym</span></dt>
<dd>  lists system command synonyms.
<span class="index">what synonym</span><a name="chapter-16-190"/>
</dd>
<dt><span class="teletype">things</span></dt>
<dd>    displays all  of the  above types for  items containing
<span class="index">what things</span><a name="chapter-16-191"/>
the pattern strings as  substrings.
The command synonym  <span class="teletype">)apropos</span> is equivalent to
<span class="index">apropos</span><a name="chapter-16-192"/>
<span class="teletype">)what things</span>.
</dd>
</dl>



<p><span style="font-weight: bold;"> Also See:</span>
<span class="teletype">)display</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmddisplay</span><a name="chapter-16-193"/>,
<span class="teletype">)set</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdset</span><a name="chapter-16-194"/>, and
<span class="teletype">)show</span> <span class="index">ugSysCmdshow</span><a name="chapter-16-195"/>.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-16.27.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 16.27 )undo</a><a href="section-17.1.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 17.1  Axiom Categories</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>