<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section12.9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-12.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.8 Correctness</a><a href="section-12.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.10 Parameters</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-12.9">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">12.9  Attributes</h2>


<a name="ugCategoriesAttributes" class="label"/>


<p>Most axioms are not computationally useful.
Those that are can be explicitly expressed by what Axiom calls an
<span class="italic">attribute</span>.
The attribute <span style="font-weight: bold;"> commutative("*")</span>, for example, is used to assert
that a domain has commutative multiplication.
Its definition is given by its documentation:
</p>




<div class="quotation">


<p>    A domain  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>R</mi></mstyle></math> has <span style="font-weight: bold;"> commutative("*")</span>
    if it has an operation "*": (R,R)->R such that  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>*</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>=</mo><mi>y</mi><mo>*</mo><mi>x</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>.
</p>



</div>



<p>Just as you can test whether a domain has the category <span class="teletype">Ring</span>, you
can test that a domain has a given attribute.
</p>



<p>Do polynomials over the integers
have commutative multiplication?
</p>




<div id="spadComm12-1" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm12-1" action="javascript:makeRequest('12-1');" >
<input id="comm12-1" type="text" class="command" style="width: 26em;" value='Polynomial Integer has commutative("*")' />
</form>
<span id="commSav12-1" class="commSav" >Polynomial Integer has commutative("*")</span>
<div id="mathAns12-1" ></div>
</div>



<p>Do matrices over the integers
have commutative multiplication?
</p>




<div id="spadComm12-2" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm12-2" action="javascript:makeRequest('12-2');" >
<input id="comm12-2" type="text" class="command" style="width: 24em;" value='Matrix Integer has commutative("*")' />
</form>
<span id="commSav12-2" class="commSav" >Matrix Integer has commutative("*")</span>
<div id="mathAns12-2" ></div>
</div>



<p>Attributes are used to conditionally export and define operations for
a domain (see <a href="section-13.3.xhtml#ugDomainsAssertions" class="ref" >ugDomainsAssertions</a> ).  Attributes can also be asserted
in a category definition.
</p>


<p>After mentioning category <span class="teletype">Ring</span> many times in this book,
it is high time that we show you its definition:
<span class="index">Ring</span><a name="chapter-12-22"/>
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
Ring():&nbsp;Category&nbsp;==<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;Join(Rng,Monoid,LeftModule($:&nbsp;Rng))&nbsp;with<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;characteristic:&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;NonNegativeInteger<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;coerce:&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;$<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;unitsKnown<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;add<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;n:Integer<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;coerce(n)&nbsp;==&nbsp;n&nbsp;*&nbsp;1$$<br />
</div>



<p>There are only two new things here.
First, look at the <span class="teletype">$$</span> on the last line.
This is not a typographic error!
The first <span class="teletype">$</span> says that the  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>1</mn></mstyle></math> is to come from some
domain.
The second <span class="teletype">$</span> says that the domain is ``this domain.''
If <span class="teletype">$</span> is <span class="teletype">Fraction(Integer)</span>, this line reads <span class="teletype">coerce(n) == n * 1$Fraction(Integer)</span>.
</p>


<p>The second new thing is the presence of attribute `` <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>unitsKnown</mi></mstyle></math>''.
Axiom can always distinguish an attribute from an operation.
An operation has a name and a type. An attribute has no type.
The attribute <span style="font-weight: bold;"> unitsKnown</span> asserts a rather subtle mathematical
fact that is normally taken for granted when working with
rings.<span class="footnote">With this axiom, the units of a domain are the set of
elements  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>x</mi></mstyle></math> that each have a multiplicative
inverse  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>y</mi></mstyle></math> in the domain.
Thus  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>1</mn></mstyle></math> and  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>-</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow></mstyle></math> are units in domain <span class="teletype">Integer</span>.
Also, for <span class="teletype">Fraction Integer</span>, the domain of rational numbers,
all non-zero elements are units.</span>
Because programs can test for this attribute, Axiom can
correctly handle rather more complicated mathematical structures (ones
that are similar to rings but do not have this attribute).
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-12.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 12.8 Correctness</a><a href="section-12.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 12.10 Parameters</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>