<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section10.6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-10.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 10.5 A Bouquet of Arrows</a><a href="section-10.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 10.7 Drawing Complex Vector Fields</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-10.6">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">10.6  Diversion: When Things Go Wrong</h2>


<a name="ugIntProgDivTwo" class="label"/>


<p>Up to now, if you have typed in all the programs exactly as they are in
the book, you have encountered no errors.
In practice, however, it is easy to make mistakes.
Computers are unforgiving: your program must be letter-for-letter correct
or you will encounter some error.
</p>


<p>One thing that can go wrong is that you can create a syntactically
incorrect program.
As pointed out in Diversion 1 the meaning of Axiom programs is
affected by indentation.
</p>


<p>The Axiom parser will ensure that all parentheses, brackets, and
braces balance, and that commas and operators appear in the correct
context.
</p>



<p>A common mistake is to misspell an identifier or operation name.
These are generally easy to spot since the interpreter will tell you the
name of the operation together with the type and number of arguments which
it is trying to find.
</p>


<p>Another mistake is to either to omit an argument or to give too many.
Again Axiom will notify you of the offending operation.
</p>


<p>Indentation makes your programs more readable.
However there are several ways to create a syntactically valid program.
A most common problem occurs when a line is  indented improperly.
If this is a first line of a pile then all the other lines will act as an
inner pile to the first line.
If it is a line of the pile other than the first line Axiom then
thinks that this line is a continuation of the previous line.
More frequently than not a syntactically correct expression is created.
Almost never however will this be a semantically correct.
Only when the program is run will an error be discovered.
</p>






</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-10.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 10.5 A Bouquet of Arrows</a><a href="section-10.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 10.7 Drawing Complex Vector Fields</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>