<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section15.7</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-15.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.6 HyperTex</a><a href="section-16.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.0  Axiom System Commands</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-15.7">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">15.7  Documentation</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugWhatsNewDocumentation</span><a name="chapter-15-36"/>
</p>



<p>We describe here a few additions to the on-line
version of the AXIOM book which you can read with
HyperDoc.
</p>



<p>A section has been added to the graphics chapter, describing
how to build two-dimensional graphs from lists of points. An example is
given showing how to read the points from a file.
See section <a href="section-7.1.xhtml#ugGraphTwoDbuild" class="ref" >ugGraphTwoDbuild</a> 
for details.
</p>


<p>A further section has been added to that same chapter, describing
how to add a two-dimensional graph to a viewport which already
contains other graphs.
See section
<a href="section-7.1.xhtml#ugGraphTwoDappend" class="ref" >ugGraphTwoDappend</a> 
for details.
</p>


<p>Chapter 3 
and the on-line HyperDoc help have been unified.
</p>


<p>An explanation of operation names ending in ``?'' and ``!'' has
been added to the first chapter. 
See the
end of the section
<a href="section-1.3.xhtml#ugIntroCallFun" class="ref" >ugIntroCallFun</a> 
for details.
</p>


<p>An expanded explanation of using predicates has
been added to the sixth chapter. See the
example involving <span style="font-weight: bold;"> evenRule</span> in the middle of the section
<a href="section-6.21.xhtml#ugUserRules" class="ref" >ugUserRules</a> 
for details.
</p>


<p>Documentation for the <span class="teletype">)compile</span>, <span class="teletype">)library</span> and
<span class="teletype">)load</span> commands has been greatly changed. This reflects
the ability of the <span class="teletype">)compile</span> to now invoke the Aldor
compiler, the impending deletion of the <span class="teletype">)load</span> command
and the new <span class="teletype">)library</span> command.
The <span class="teletype">)library</span> command replaces <span class="teletype">)load</span> and is
compatible with the compiled output from both the old and new
compilers.
</p>






</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-15.6.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.6 HyperTex</a><a href="section-16.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 16.0  Axiom System Commands</a><a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>