<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section13.9</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-13.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 13.8 Add Domain</a><a href="section-13.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 13.10 Origins</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-13.9">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">13.9  Defaults</h2>


<a name="ugDomainsDefaults" class="label"/>


<p>In Chapter <a href="section-11.0.xhtml#ugPackages" class="ref" >ugPackages</a> 
we saw that categories can provide
default implementations for their operations.
How and when are they used?
When Axiom finds that <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm(2, Fraction
Integer)</span> does not implement the operations <span class="teletype"> *</span>,
<span class="teletype"> +</span>, and <span class="teletype"> -</span>, it goes to
<span class="teletype"> SquareMatrix(2,Fraction Integer)</span> to find it.
As it turns out, <span class="teletype"> SquareMatrix(2, Fraction Integer)</span> does
not implement <span class="italic"> any</span> of these operations!
</p>


<p>What does Axiom do then?
Here is its overall strategy.
First, Axiom looks for a function in the capsule for the domain.
If it is not there, Axiom looks in the add-domain for the
operation.
If that fails, Axiom searches the add-domain of the add-domain,
and so on.
If all those fail, it then searches the default packages for the
categories of which the domain is a member.
In the case of <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>, it searches
<span class="teletype"> AbelianGroup</span>, then its parents, grandparents, and
so on.
If this fails, it then searches the default packages of the
add-domain.
Whenever a function is found, the search stops immediately and the
function is returned.
When all fails, the system calls <span style="font-weight: bold;"> error</span> to report this
unfortunate news to you.
To find out the actual order of constructors searched for
<span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>, consult Browse: from the
<span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>, click on <span class="teletype"> Cross Reference</span>, then on
<span class="teletype"> Lineage</span>.
</p>


<p>Let's apply this search strategy for our example <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mn>3</mn><mo>*</mo><mi>q</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>q</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>q</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>.
The scalar multiplication comes first.
Axiom finds a default implementation in
<span class="teletype"> AbelianGroup&amp;</span>.
Remember from <a href="section-12.6.xhtml#ugCategoriesDefaults" class="ref" >ugCategoriesDefaults</a> that
<span class="teletype"> SemiGroup</span> provides a default definition for
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mi>n</mi></msup></mrow></mstyle></math> by repeated squaring.
<span class="teletype"> AbelianGroup</span> similarly provides a definition for
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>n</mi><mi>x</mi></mrow></mstyle></math> by repeated doubling.
</p>


<p>But the search of the defaults for <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span> fails
to find any <span class="teletype"> +</span> or <span class="teletype"> *</span> in the default packages for
the ancestors of <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>.
So it now searches among those for <span class="teletype"> SquareMatrix</span>.
Category <span class="teletype"> MatrixCategory</span>, which provides a uniform interface
for all matrix domains,
is a grandparent of <span class="teletype"> SquareMatrix</span> and
has a capsule defining many functions for matrices, including
matrix addition, subtraction, and scalar multiplication.
The default package <span class="teletype"> MatrixCategory&amp;</span> is where the
functions for <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>+</mo></mstyle></math> and <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>-</mo></mstyle></math> (from QuadraticForm) come from.
</p>


<p>You can use Browse to discover where the operations for
<span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span> are implemented.
First, get the page describing <span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm</span>.
With your mouse somewhere in this window, type a ``2'', press the
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> Tab</span> key, and then enter ``Fraction
Integer'' to indicate that you want the domain
<span class="teletype"> QuadraticForm(2, Fraction Integer)</span>.
Now click on <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Operations</span> to get a table of operations and on
<span class="teletype"> *</span> to get a page describing the <span class="teletype"> *</span> operation.
Finally, click on <span style="font-weight: bold;"> implementation</span> at the bottom.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-13.8.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 13.8 Add Domain</a><a href="section-13.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 13.10 Origins</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>