<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section3.1</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-3.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.0 Using HyperDoc</a><a href="section-3.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.2 Key Definitions</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-3.1">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">3.1  Headings</h2>


<a name="ugHyperHeadings" class="label"/>

<p>Most pages have a standard set of buttons at the top of the page.
This is what they mean:
</p>


<p><dl>
<dt>Help</dt>
<dd> Click on this to get help.  The button only appears
if there is specific help for the page you are viewing.  You can get
<span class="italic">general</span> help for HyperDoc by clicking the help button on the
home page.
</dd>
<dt>Up</dt>
<dd> Click here to go back one page.
By clicking on this button repeatedly, you can go back several pages and
then take off in a new direction.
</dd>
<dt>Return</dt>
<dd> Go back to the home page, that is, the page on
which you started.  Use HyperDoc to explore, to make forays into new
topics.  Don't worry about how to get back.  HyperDoc remembers where
you came from.  Just click on this button to return.
</dd>
<dt>Exit</dt>
<dd> From the root window (the one that is displayed
when you start the system) this button leaves the HyperDoc program,
and it must be restarted if you want to use it again.  From any other
HyperDoc window, it just makes that one window go away.  You <span class="italic">must</span> 
use this button to get rid of a window.  If you use the window
manager ``Close'' button, then all of HyperDoc goes away.
</dd>
</dl>
</p>


<p>The buttons are not displayed if they are not applicable to the page
you are viewing.  For example, there is no <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Home</span> button on the
top-level menu.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-3.0.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.0 Using HyperDoc</a><a href="section-3.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.2 Key Definitions</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>