<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section1.15</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-1.14.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 1.14 Solution of Equations</a><a href="section-1.16.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 1.16 Graphics</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-1.15">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">1.15  System Commands</h2>


<a name="ugIntroSysCmmands" class="label"/>



<p>We conclude our tour of Axiom with a brief discussion of
<span class="italic">system commands</span>.  System commands are special statements
that start with a closing parenthesis (<span class="teletype">)</span>). They are used
to control or display your Axiom environment, start the
HyperDoc system, issue operating system commands and leave
Axiom.  For example, <span class="teletype">)system</span> is used to issue commands
to the operating system from Axiom.  Here
is a brief description of some of these commands.  For more
information on specific commands, see Appendix A .
</p>



<p>Perhaps the most important user command is the <span class="teletype">)clear all</span>
command that initializes your environment.  Every section and
subsection in this document has an invisible <span class="teletype">)clear all</span> that is
read prior to the examples given in the section.  <span class="teletype">)clear all</span>
gives you a fresh, empty environment with no user variables defined
and the step number reset to <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>1</mn></mstyle></math>.  The <span class="teletype">)clear</span> command
can also be used to selectively clear values and properties of system
variables.
</p>



<p>Another useful system command is <span class="teletype">)read</span>.  A preferred way to
develop an application in Axiom is to put your interactive
commands into a file, say <span style="font-weight: bold;"> my.input</span> file.  To get Axiom to
read this file, you use the system command <span class="teletype">)read my.input</span>.
If you need to make changes to your approach or definitions, go into
your favorite editor, change <span style="font-weight: bold;"> my.input</span>, then <span class="teletype">)read
my.input</span> again.
</p>



<p>Other system commands include: <span class="teletype">)history</span>, to display
previous input and/or output lines; <span class="teletype">)display</span>, to display
properties and values of workspace variables; and <span class="teletype">)what</span>.
</p>



<p>Issue <span class="teletype">)what</span> to get a list of Axiom objects that
contain a given substring in their name.
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-192" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-192" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-192');" >
<input id="comm1-192" type="text" class="command" style="width: 18em;" value=")what operations integrate" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-192" class="commSav" >)what operations integrate</span>
<div id="mathAns1-192" ></div>
</div>





<div class="verbatim"><br />
Operations&nbsp;whose&nbsp;names&nbsp;satisfy&nbsp;the&nbsp;above&nbsp;pattern(s):<br />
<br />
HermiteIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;algintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;complexIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
expintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;extendedIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;fintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
infieldIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;integrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;internalIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
internalIntegrate0&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lazyGintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;lazyIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
lfintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;limitedIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;monomialIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
nagPolygonIntegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;palgintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;pmComplexintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
pmintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;primintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;tanintegrate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<br />
To&nbsp;get&nbsp;more&nbsp;information&nbsp;about&nbsp;an&nbsp;operation&nbsp;such&nbsp;as&nbsp;<br />
limitedIntegrate&nbsp;,&nbsp;issue&nbsp;the&nbsp;command&nbsp;)display&nbsp;op&nbsp;limitedIntegrate<br />
</div>




<a name="subsec-1.15.1"/>
<div class="subsection"  id="subsec-1.15.1">
<h3 class="subsectitle">1.15.1  Undo</h3>


<a name="ugIntroUndo" class="label"/>



<p>A useful system command is <span class="teletype">)undo</span>.  Sometimes while computing
interactively with Axiom, you make a mistake and enter an
incorrect definition or assignment.  Or perhaps you need to try one of
several alternative approaches, one after another, to find the best
way to approach an application.  For this, you will find the
<span class="italic">undo</span> facility of Axiom helpful.
</p>



<p>System command <span class="teletype">)undo n</span> means ``undo back to step
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math>''; it restores the values of user variables to those that
existed immediately after input expression <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math> was evaluated.
Similarly, <span class="teletype">)undo -n</span> undoes changes caused by the last
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>n</mi></mstyle></math> input expressions.  Once you have done an <span class="teletype">)undo</span>,
you can continue on from there, or make a change and <span style="font-weight: bold;"> redo</span> all
your input expressions from the point of the <span class="teletype">)undo</span> forward.
The <span class="teletype">)undo</span> is completely general: it changes the environment
like any user expression.  Thus you can <span class="teletype">)undo</span> any previous
undo.
</p>



<p>Here is a sample dialogue between user and Axiom.
</p>



<p>``Let me define
two mutually dependent functions <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math> and <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>g</mi></mstyle></math> piece-wise.''
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-193" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-193" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-193');" >
<input id="comm1-193" type="text" class="command" style="width: 14em;" value="f(0) == 1; g(0) == 1" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-193" class="commSav" >f(0) == 1; g(0) == 1</span>
<div id="mathAns1-193" ></div>
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Void
</div>



<p>``Here is the general term for <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math>.''
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-194" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-194" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-194');" >
<input id="comm1-194" type="text" class="command" style="width: 20em;" value="f(n) == e/2*f(n-1) - x*g(n-1)" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-194" class="commSav" >f(n) == e/2*f(n-1) - x*g(n-1)</span>
<div id="mathAns1-194" ></div>
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Void
</div>




<p>``And here is the general term for <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>g</mi></mstyle></math>.''
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-195" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-195" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-195');" >
<input id="comm1-195" type="text" class="command" style="width: 20em;" value="g(n) == -x*f(n-1) + d/3*g(n-1)" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-195" class="commSav" >g(n) == -x*f(n-1) + d/3*g(n-1)</span>
<div id="mathAns1-195" ></div>
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Void
</div>




<p>``What is value of <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>?''
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-196" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-196" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-196');" >
<input id="comm1-196" type="text" class="command" style="width: 3em;" value="f(3)" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-196" class="commSav" >f(3)</span>
<div id="mathAns1-196" ></div>
</div>



<div class="math">
<table>
<tr><td>
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>e</mi><mo>+</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>3</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mi>d</mi></mrow><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mrow><mo>(</mo><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>4</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>6</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mi>d</mi><mo></mo><mi>e</mi></mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>9</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo></mo><mi>x</mi></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>8</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Polynomial Fraction Integer
</div>




<p>``Hmm, I think I want to define <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math> differently.
Undo to the environment right after I defined <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math>.''
</p>



<div id="spadComm1-197" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-197" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-197');" >
<input id="comm1-197" type="text" class="command" style="width: 5em;" value=")undo 2" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-197" class="commSav" >)undo 2</span>
<div id="mathAns1-197" ></div>
</div>




<p>``Here is how I think I want <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math> to be defined instead.''
</p>




<div id="spadComm1-198" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-198" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-198');" >
<input id="comm1-198" type="text" class="command" style="width: 20em;" value="f(n) == d/3*f(n-1) - x*g(n-1)" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-198" class="commSav" >f(n) == d/3*f(n-1) - x*g(n-1)</span>
<div id="mathAns1-198" ></div>
</div>





<div class="verbatim"><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1&nbsp;old&nbsp;definition(s)&nbsp;deleted&nbsp;for&nbsp;function&nbsp;or&nbsp;rule&nbsp;f&nbsp;<br />
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Void
</div>




<p>Redo the computation from expression <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>3</mn></mstyle></math> forward.
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-199" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-199" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-199');" >
<input id="comm1-199" type="text" class="command" style="width: 8em;" value=")undo )redo" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-199" class="commSav" >)undo )redo</span>
<div id="mathAns1-199" ></div>
</div>





<div class="verbatim"><br />
g(n)&nbsp;==&nbsp;-x*f(n-1)&nbsp;+&nbsp;d/3*g(n-1)<br />
&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Type:&nbsp;Void<br />
f(3)<br />
&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Polynomial&nbsp;Fraction&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;recurrence&nbsp;relation.<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322;AUX|&nbsp;redefined<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322|&nbsp;redefined<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Polynomial&nbsp;Fraction&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;recurrence&nbsp;relation.<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322;AUX|&nbsp;redefined<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322|&nbsp;redefined<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;f&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Polynomial&nbsp;Fraction&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;f&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;recurrence&nbsp;relation.<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;f;1;G82322;AUX|&nbsp;redefined<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;f;1;G82322|&nbsp;redefined<br />
</div>



<div class="math">
<table>
<tr><td>
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mi>d</mi><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>3</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow><mo></mo><mi>x</mi></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>27</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Polynomial Fraction Integer
</div>




<p>``I want my old definition of
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mi>f</mi></mstyle></math> after all. Undo the undo and restore
the environment to that immediately after <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mo>(</mo><mn>4</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math>.''
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-200" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-200" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-200');" >
<input id="comm1-200" type="text" class="command" style="width: 5em;" value=")undo 4" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-200" class="commSav" >)undo 4</span>
<div id="mathAns1-200" ></div>
</div>




<p>``Check that the value of <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mrow><mi>f</mi><mo>(</mo><mn>3</mn><mo>)</mo></mrow></mstyle></math> is restored.''
</p>





<div id="spadComm1-201" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm1-201" action="javascript:makeRequest('1-201');" >
<input id="comm1-201" type="text" class="command" style="width: 3em;" value="f(3)" />
</form>
<span id="commSav1-201" class="commSav" >f(3)</span>
<div id="mathAns1-201" ></div>
</div>





<div class="verbatim"><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Polynomial&nbsp;Fraction&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;recurrence&nbsp;relation.<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322;AUX|&nbsp;redefined<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322|&nbsp;redefined<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Polynomial&nbsp;Fraction&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;g&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;recurrence&nbsp;relation.<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322;AUX|&nbsp;redefined<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;g;1;G82322|&nbsp;redefined<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;f&nbsp;with&nbsp;type&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;-&gt;&nbsp;Polynomial&nbsp;Fraction&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Integer&nbsp;<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Compiling&nbsp;function&nbsp;f&nbsp;as&nbsp;a&nbsp;recurrence&nbsp;relation.<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;f;1;G82322;AUX|&nbsp;redefined<br />
<br />
+++&nbsp;|*1;f;1;G82322|&nbsp;redefined<br />
</div>



<div class="math">
<table>
<tr><td>
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>e</mi><mo>+</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>3</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mi>d</mi></mrow><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>x</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mrow><mo>(</mo><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>4</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>6</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mi>d</mi><mo></mo><mi>e</mi></mrow><mo>-</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>9</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>d</mi><mn>2</mn></msup></mrow></mrow><mo>)</mo></mrow><mo></mo><mi>x</mi></mrow><mo>+</mo><mrow><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mn>8</mn></mfrac><mo></mo><mrow><msup><mi>e</mi><mn>3</mn></msup></mrow></mrow></mrow></mstyle></math>
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>





<div class="returnType">
Type: Polynomial Fraction Integer
</div>




<p>After you have gone off on several tangents, then backtracked to
previous points in your conversation using <span class="teletype">)undo</span>, you might
want to save all the ``correct'' input commands you issued,
disregarding those undone.  The system command <span class="teletype">)history
)write mynew.input</span> writes a clean straight-line program onto the file
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> mynew.input</span> on your disk.
</p>





</div>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-1.14.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 1.14 Solution of Equations</a><a href="section-1.16.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 1.16 Graphics</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>