<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section2.11</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-2.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 2.10 Resolving Types</a><a href="section-2.12.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 2.12 Commands for Snooping</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-2.11">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">2.11  Exposing Domains and Packages</h2>


<a name="ugTypesExpose" class="label"/>


<p>In this section we discuss how Axiom makes some operations available
to you while hiding others that are meant to be used by developers or
only in rare cases.  If you are a new user of Axiom, it is likely that
everything you need is available by default and you may want to skip
over this section on first reading.
</p>


<p>Every <span class="index">constructor:exposed</span><a name="chapter-2-61"/> domain and package in the Axiom
library <span class="index">constructor:hidden</span><a name="chapter-2-62"/> is <span class="index">exposed:constructor</span><a name="chapter-2-63"/>
either exposed (meaning that you can use its operations without doing
anything special) or it is <span class="italic">hidden</span> (meaning you have to either
package call (see <a href="section-2.9.xhtml#ugTypesPkgCall" class="ref" >ugTypesPkgCall</a>) the operations it contains or
explicitly expose it to use the operations).  The initial exposure
status for a constructor is set in the file <span style="font-weight: bold;"> exposed.lsp</span> (see the
<span class="italic">Installer's Note</span> <span class="index">exposed.lsp @<span style="font-weight: bold;"> exposed.lsp</span><a name="chapter-2-64"/></span> for
Axiom <span class="index">file:exposed.lsp @<span style="font-weight: bold;"> exposed.lsp</span></span><a name="chapter-2-65"/> if you need to know
the location of this file).  Constructors are collected together in
<span class="index">group:exposure</span><a name="chapter-2-66"/> <span class="italic">exposure groups</span>.  <span class="index">exposure:group</span><a name="chapter-2-67"/>
Categories are all in the exposure group ``categories'' and the bulk
of the basic set of packages and domains that are exposed are in the
exposure group ``basic.''  Here is an abbreviated sample of the file
(without the Lisp parentheses):
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
basic<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AlgebraicNumber&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AN<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AlgebraGivenByStructuralConstants&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ALGSC<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Any&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ANY<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AnyFunctions1&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ANY1<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;BinaryExpansion&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;BINARY<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Boolean&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;BOOLEAN<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CardinalNumber&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CARD<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CartesianTensor&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CARTEN<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Character&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CHAR<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CharacterClass&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CCLASS<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CliffordAlgebra&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CLIF<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Color&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;COLOR<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Complex&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;COMPLEX<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ContinuedFraction&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CONTFRAC<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;DecimalExpansion&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;DECIMAL<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;...<br />
</div>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
categories<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AbelianGroup&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ABELGRP<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AbelianMonoid&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ABELMON<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AbelianMonoidRing&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AMR<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AbelianSemiGroup&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ABELSG<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aggregate&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AGG<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Algebra&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ALGEBRA<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AlgebraicallyClosedField&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ACF<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AlgebraicallyClosedFunctionSpace&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ACFS<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;ArcHyperbolicFunctionCategory&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;AHYP<br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;...<br />
</div>



<p>For each constructor in a group, the full name and the abbreviation is
given.  There are other groups in <span style="font-weight: bold;"> exposed.lsp</span> but initially only
the constructors in exposure groups ``basic'' ``categories''
``naglink'' and ``anna'' are exposed.
</p>


<p>As an interactive user of Axiom, you do not need to modify this file.
Instead, use <span class="teletype">)set expose</span> to expose, hide or query the exposure
status of an individual constructor or exposure group. <span class="index">set expose</span><a name="chapter-2-68"/> 
The reason for having exposure groups is to be able to expose
or hide multiple constructors with a single command.  For example, you
might group together into exposure group ``quantum'' a number of
domains and packages useful for quantum mechanical computations.
These probably should not be available to every user, but you want an
easy way to make the whole collection visible to Axiom when it is
looking for operations to apply.
</p>


<p>If you wanted to hide all the basic constructors available by default,
you would issue <span class="teletype">)set expose drop group basic</span>.  
<span class="index">set expose drop group</span><a name="chapter-2-69"/> We do not recommend that you do this.  
If, however, you discover that you have hidden all the basic constructors, 
you should issue <span class="teletype">)set expose add group basic</span> to restore your default
environment.  <span class="index">set expose add group</span><a name="chapter-2-70"/>
</p>


<p>It is more likely that you would want to expose or hide individual
constructors.  In <a href="section-6.19.xhtml#ugUserTriangle" class="ref" >ugUserTriangle</a> we use several operations from 
<span class="teletype">OutputForm</span>, a domain usually hidden.  To avoid package calling every
operation from <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span>, we expose the domain and let Axiom
conclude that those operations should be used.  Use <span class="teletype">)set expose
add constructor</span> and <span class="teletype">)set expose drop constructor</span> to expose and
hide a constructor, respectively.  <span class="index">set expose drop constructor</span><a name="chapter-2-71"/>
You should use the constructor name, not the abbreviation.  The 
<span class="teletype">)set expose</span> command guides you through these options.  
<span class="index">set expose add constructor</span><a name="chapter-2-72"/>
</p>


<p>If you expose a previously hidden constructor, Axiom exhibits new
behavior (that was your intention) though you might not expect the
results that you get.  <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span> is, in fact, one of the worst
offenders in this regard.  <span class="index">OutputForm</span><a name="chapter-2-73"/> This domain is meant to
be used by other domains for creating a structure that Axiom knows how
to display.  It has functions like <span class="spadopFrom" title="OutputForm">+</span> that
form output representations rather than do mathematical calculations.
Because of the order in which Axiom looks at constructors when it is
deciding what operation to apply, <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span> might be used
instead of what you expect.
</p>


<p>This is a polynomial.
</p>



<div id="spadComm2-130" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm2-130" action="javascript:makeRequest('2-130');" >
<input id="comm2-130" type="text" class="command" style="width: 4em;" value="x + x" />
</form>
<span id="commSav2-130" class="commSav" >x + x</span>
<div id="mathAns2-130" ></div>
</div>


<div class="math">
<table>
<tr><td>
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mn>2</mn><mo></mo><mi>x</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>




<div class="returnType">
Type: Polynomial Integer
</div>



<p>Expose <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span>.
</p>



<div id="spadComm2-131" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm2-131" action="javascript:makeRequest('2-131');" >
<input id="comm2-131" type="text" class="command" style="width: 26em;" value=")set expose add constructor OutputForm " />
</form>
<span id="commSav2-131" class="commSav" >)set expose add constructor OutputForm </span>
<div id="mathAns2-131" ></div>
</div>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;OutputForm&nbsp;is&nbsp;now&nbsp;explicitly&nbsp;exposed&nbsp;in&nbsp;frame&nbsp;G82322&nbsp;<br />
</div>



<p>This is what we get when <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span> is automatically available.
</p>



<div id="spadComm2-132" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm2-132" action="javascript:makeRequest('2-132');" >
<input id="comm2-132" type="text" class="command" style="width: 4em;" value="x + x" />
</form>
<span id="commSav2-132" class="commSav" >x + x</span>
<div id="mathAns2-132" ></div>
</div>


<div class="math">
<table>
<tr><td>
<math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big" display="block"><mstyle><mrow><mi>x</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>x</mi></mrow></mstyle></math>
</td></tr>
</table>
</div>




<div class="returnType">
Type: OutputForm
</div>



<p>Hide <span class="teletype">OutputForm</span> so we don't run into problems with any later examples!
</p>



<div id="spadComm2-133" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm2-133" action="javascript:makeRequest('2-133');" >
<input id="comm2-133" type="text" class="command" style="width: 27em;" value=")set expose drop constructor OutputForm " />
</form>
<span id="commSav2-133" class="commSav" >)set expose drop constructor OutputForm </span>
<div id="mathAns2-133" ></div>
</div>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;OutputForm&nbsp;is&nbsp;now&nbsp;explicitly&nbsp;hidden&nbsp;in&nbsp;frame&nbsp;G82322&nbsp;<br />
</div>



<p>Finally, exposure is done on a frame-by-frame basis.  A <span class="italic">frame</span>
(see <a href="section-16.11.xhtml#ugSysCmdframe" class="ref" >ugSysCmdframe</a> )
<span class="index">frame:exposure and</span><a name="chapter-2-74"/> is one of possibly several logical Axiom
workspaces within a physical one, each having its own environment (for
example, variables and function definitions).  If you have several
Axiom workspace windows on your screen, they are all different frames,
automatically created for you by HyperDoc.  Frames can be manually
created, made active and destroyed by the <span class="teletype">)frame</span> system command.
<span class="index">frame</span><a name="chapter-2-75"/> They do not share exposure information, so you need to
use <span class="teletype">)set expose</span> in each one to add or drop constructors from
view.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-2.10.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 2.10 Resolving Types</a><a href="section-2.12.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 2.12 Commands for Snooping</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>