<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section3.4</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-3.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.3 Scroll Bars</a><a href="section-3.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.5 Radio Buttons and Toggles</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-3.4">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">3.4  Input Areas</h2>


<a name="ugHyperInput" class="label"/>


<p>Input areas are boxes where you can put data.
</p>


<p>To enter characters, first move your mouse cursor to somewhere within
the HyperDoc page.  Characters that you type are inserted in front of
the underscore.  This means that when you type characters at your
keyboard, they go into this first input area.
</p>


<p>The input area grows to accommodate as many characters as you type.
Use the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Backspace</span> key to erase characters to the left.  To
modify what you type, use the right-arrow  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2192;</mo></mstyle></math> and
left-arrow keys  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mo>&#x2190;</mo></mstyle></math> and the keys <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Insert</span>,
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> Delete</span>, <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Home</span> and <span style="font-weight: bold;"> End</span>.  These keys are
found immediately on the right of the standard IBM keyboard.
</p>


<p>If you press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Home</span> key, the cursor moves to the
beginning of the line and if you press the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> End</span> key, the
cursor moves to the end of the line.  Pressing 
<span style="font-weight: bold;"> Ctrl</span>--<span style="font-weight: bold;"> End</span> deletes all the text from the 
cursor to the end of the line.
</p>


<p>A page may have more than one input area.  Only one input area has an
underscore cursor.  When you first see apage, the top-most input area
contains the cursor.  To type information into another input area, use
the <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Enter</span> or <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Tab</span> key to move from one input area to
xanother.  To move in the reverse order, use <span style="font-weight: bold;"> Shift</span>--<span style="font-weight: bold;"> Tab</span>.
</p>


<p>You can also move from one input area to another using your mouse.
Notice that each input area is active. Click on one of the areas.
As you can see, the underscore cursor moves to that window.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-3.3.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 3.3 Scroll Bars</a><a href="section-3.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 3.5 Radio Buttons and Toggles</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>