<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section4.3</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-4.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 4.2 The .axiom.input File</a><a href="section-4.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 4.4 Monospace Two-Dimensional Mathematical Format</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-4.3">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">4.3  Common Features of Using Output Formats</h2>


<a name="ugInOutOut" class="label"/>


<p>In this section we discuss how to start and stop the display
<span class="index">output formats:common features</span><a name="chapter-4-13"/> of the different output formats
and how to send the output to the screen or to a file.
<span class="index">file:sending output to</span><a name="chapter-4-14"/> To fix ideas, we use FORTRAN output
format for most of the examples.
</p>


<p>You can use the <span class="teletype">)set output</span> system <span class="index">output
formats:starting</span><a name="chapter-4-15"/> command to <span class="index">output formats:stopping</span><a name="chapter-4-16"/> toggle or
redirect the different kinds of output.  <span class="index">set output</span><a name="chapter-4-17"/> The name
of the kind of output follows ``output'' in the command.  The names are
</p>


<p><table class="begintabular">
<tr><td><span style="font-weight: bold;">fortran</span> </td><td> for FORTRAN output. </td></tr>
<tr><td><span style="font-weight: bold;">algebra</span> </td><td> for monospace two-dimensional mathematical output. </td></tr>
<tr><td><span style="font-weight: bold;">tex</span>     </td><td> for <span class="texlogo">TeX</span> output. </td></tr>
<tr><td><span style="font-weight: bold;">script</span>  </td><td> for IBM Script Formula Format output. </td></tr>
</table>
</p>


<p>For example, issue <span class="teletype">)set output fortran on</span> to turn on FORTRAN
format and issue <span class="teletype">)set output fortran off</span> to turn it off.  By
default, <span class="teletype">algebra</span> is <span class="teletype">on</span> and all others are <span class="teletype">off</span>.
<span class="index">set output fortran</span><a name="chapter-4-18"/> When output is started, it is sent to the
screen.  To send the output to a file, give the file name without
<span class="index">output formats:sending to file</span><a name="chapter-4-19"/> directory or extension.  Axiom
appends a file extension depending on the kind of output being
produced.
</p>


<p>Issue this to redirect FORTRAN output to, for example, the file
<span style="font-weight: bold;">linalg.sfort</span>.
</p>



<div id="spadComm4-1" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm4-1" action="javascript:makeRequest('4-1');" >
<input id="comm4-1" type="text" class="command" style="width: 18em;" value=")set output fortran linalg" />
</form>
<span id="commSav4-1" class="commSav" >)set output fortran linalg</span>
<div id="mathAns4-1" ></div>
</div>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;FORTRAN&nbsp;output&nbsp;will&nbsp;be&nbsp;written&nbsp;to&nbsp;file&nbsp;linalg.sfort&nbsp;.<br />
</div>



<p>You must <span class="italic">also</span> turn on the creation of FORTRAN output.
The above just says where it goes if it is created.
</p>



<div id="spadComm4-2" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm4-2" action="javascript:makeRequest('4-2');" >
<input id="comm4-2" type="text" class="command" style="width: 15em;" value=")set output fortran on" />
</form>
<span id="commSav4-2" class="commSav" >)set output fortran on</span>
<div id="mathAns4-2" ></div>
</div>



<p>In what directory is this output placed?  It goes into the directory
from which you started Axiom, or if you have used the <span class="teletype">)cd</span>
system command, the one that you specified with <span class="teletype">)cd</span>.
<span class="index">cd</span><a name="chapter-4-20"/> You should use <span class="teletype">)cd</span> before you send the output to the file.
</p>


<p>You can always direct output back to the screen by issuing this.
<span class="index">output formats:sending to screen</span><a name="chapter-4-21"/>
</p>



<div id="spadComm4-3" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm4-3" action="javascript:makeRequest('4-3');" >
<input id="comm4-3" type="text" class="command" style="width: 18em;" value=")set output fortran console" />
</form>
<span id="commSav4-3" class="commSav" >)set output fortran console</span>
<div id="mathAns4-3" ></div>
</div>



<p>Let's make sure FORTRAN formatting is off so that nothing we
do from now on produces FORTRAN output.
</p>



<div id="spadComm4-4" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm4-4" action="javascript:makeRequest('4-4');" >
<input id="comm4-4" type="text" class="command" style="width: 16em;" value=")set output fortran off" />
</form>
<span id="commSav4-4" class="commSav" >)set output fortran off</span>
<div id="mathAns4-4" ></div>
</div>



<p>We also delete the demonstrated output file we created.
</p>



<div id="spadComm4-5" class="spadComm" >
<form id="formComm4-5" action="javascript:makeRequest('4-5');" >
<input id="comm4-5" type="text" class="command" style="width: 16em;" value=")system rm linalg.sfort" />
</form>
<span id="commSav4-5" class="commSav" >)system rm linalg.sfort</span>
<div id="mathAns4-5" ></div>
</div>



<p>You can abbreviate the words ``<span class="teletype">on</span>,'' ``<span class="teletype">off</span>,'' and 
``<span class="teletype">console</span>'' to the minimal number of characters needed to distinguish
them.  Because of this, you cannot send output to files called 
<span style="font-weight: bold;">on.sfort, off.sfort, of.sfort, console.sfort, consol.sfort</span> and so on.
</p>


<p>The width of the output on the page is set by <span class="index">output
formats:line length</span><a name="chapter-4-22"/> <span class="teletype">)set output length</span> for all formats except
FORTRAN.  <span class="index">set output length</span><a name="chapter-4-23"/> Use <span class="teletype">)set fortran fortlength</span>
to change the FORTRAN line length from its default value of  <math xmlns="&mathml;" mathsize="big"><mstyle><mn>72</mn></mstyle></math>.
</p>




</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-4.2.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 4.2 The .axiom.input File</a><a href="section-4.4.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 4.4 Monospace Two-Dimensional Mathematical Format</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>