<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd" [
<!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
]>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" >


  <head>
    <title>Section15.6</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="graphicstyle.css" />
    <script type="text/javascript" src="bookax1.js" />
  </head>

  <body>
<a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a><a href="section-15.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.5 Library</a><a href="section-15.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.7 Documentation</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a><div class="section"  id="sec-15.6">
<h2 class="sectiontitle">15.6  HyperTex</h2>


<p><span class="index">ugWhatsNewHyperDoc</span><a name="chapter-15-35"/>
</p>



<p>The buttons on the titlebar and scrollbar have been replaced
with ones which have a 3D effect. You can change the foreground and
background colors of these ``controls'' by including and modifying
the following lines in your <span style="font-weight: bold;"> .Xdefaults</span> file.
</p>



<div class="verbatim"><br />
Axiom.hyperdoc.ControlBackground:&nbsp;White<br />
Axiom.hyperdoc.ControlForeground:&nbsp;Black<br />
</div>



<p>For various reasons, HyperDoc sometimes displays a
secondary window. You can control the size and placement of this
window by including and modifying
the following line in your <span style="font-weight: bold;"> .Xdefaults</span> file.
</p>




<div class="verbatim"><br />
Axiom.hyperdoc.FormGeometry:&nbsp;=950x450+100+0<br />
</div>



<p>This setting is a standard X Window System geometry specification:
you are requesting a window 950 pixels wide by 450 deep and placed in
the upper left corner.
</p>


<p>Some key definitions have been changed to conform more closely
with the CUA guidelines. Press
F9
to see the current definitions.
</p>


<p>Input boxes (for example, in the Browser) now accept paste-ins from
the X Window System. Use the second button to paste in something
you have previously copied or cut. An example of how you can use this
is that you can paste the type from an Axiom computation
into the main Browser input box.
</p>






</div><a href="book-contents.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Book Contents</a>
<a href="section-15.5.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Previous Section 15.5 Library</a><a href="section-15.7.xhtml" style="margin-right: 10px;">Next Section 15.7 Documentation</a>
<a href="book-index.xhtml">Book Index</a></body>
</html>